Group of private American engineering colleges
Association of Independent Technological Universities
) is a group of private
engineering colleges established in 1957. The purpose of the
association is to share ideas and practices that promote innovation and
entrepreneurship, promote technology-oriented careers and advance
post-secondary education in engineering and science.
Member institutions
The Association of Independent Technological Universities was founded by fifteen colleges.
Since then, two of the original institutions have left the association
(after having expanded from their original scope as technological
universities) and many of the remaining thirteen have undergone name
changes and/or mergers. In addition, nine more colleges have joined the
association for a total of twenty-two current members.
Original members
California Institute of Technology
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Case Institute of Technology
Clarkson College of Technology
Drexel Institute
Illinois Institute of Technology
Lehigh University
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Rose Polytechnic Institute
Stevens Institute of Technology
Worcester Polytechnic Institute
Current members
California Institute of Technology
Carnegie Mellon University
Case Western Reserve University
Clarkson University
Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering
Florida Institute of Technology
Illinois Institute of Technology
Kettering University
Lawrence Technological University
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Milwaukee School of Engineering
New York Institute of Technology
New York University Tandon School of Engineering
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Rochester Institute of Technology
Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology
Stevens Institute of Technology
Worcester Polytechnic Institute
. Association of Independent Technological Universities. Archived from
"Founding Members"
. Association of Independent Technological Universities. Archived from
"Member Institutions"
. Association of Independent Technological Universities. Archived from
"News Byte: New York Tech in Good Company Among AITU Members | Box | New York Tech"
Official website