Organization of leading research universities
Association of American Universities
February 28, 1900
; 125 years ago
, Illinois, U.S.
nonprofit organization
William T. Golden Center for Science and Engineering
Washington, D.C.
38.90028°N 77.02833°W
38.90028; -77.02833
Robert J. Jones
Association of American Universities
) is an organization of predominantly American
research universities
devoted to maintaining a strong system of academic
and education. Founded in 1900, it consists of 69
universities in the
as well as two universities in
. AAU membership is by invitation only and requires an affirmative vote of three-quarters of current members.
The AAU was founded on February 28, 1900, by a group of 14
Doctor of Philosophy
degree-granting universities
in the United States to strengthen and standardize American doctoral programs.
American universities—starting with  University of Michigan and Johns
Hopkins University in 1876—were adopting the research-intensive German
model of higher education. Lack of standardization damaged European
universities' opinions of their American counterparts and many American
students attended
graduate school
in Europe instead of staying in the U.S. The presidents of
Harvard University
Columbia University
Johns Hopkins University
University of Chicago
University of California
sent a letter of invitation to nine other universities—
Clark University
Catholic University of America
Cornell University
University of Michigan
Princeton University
University of Pennsylvania
Stanford University
University of Wisconsin
Yale University
—to meet in Chicago in February 1900 to promote and raise standards.
The AAU's founding members elected Harvard's
Charles William Eliot
as the association's first president
David Starr Jordan
as its first chairman.
In 1914, the AAU began
accrediting undergraduate education
at its member and other schools. German universities used the "AAU
Accepted List" to determine whether a college's graduates were qualified
for graduate programs.
Regional accreditation
agencies existed in the U.S. by the 1920s, and the AAU ended accrediting schools in 1948.
For its first six decades, the AAU functioned as a club for the
presidents and deans of elite research universities to informally
discuss educational matters, and its day-to-day operations were managed
by an executive secretary.
In the 1970s, the AAU shifted to a role of active advocacy on behalf of
its members' interests; dues were raised, more staff members were
hired, and its chief executive was given the title of president and the
duty of becoming far more publicly visible than his predecessors.
Today, the AAU consists of 71 U.S. and Canadian universities of
varying sizes and missions that share a commitment to research. The six
newest members, added in 2023, are:
Arizona State University
George Washington University
University of California, Riverside
University of Miami
University of Notre Dame
University of South Florida
The organization's primary purpose is to provide a forum for the
development and implementation of institutional and national policies in
order to strengthen programs in academic research, scholarship, and
education at the undergraduate, graduate, and professional levels.
The largest attraction of the AAU for many schools, especially
nonmembers, is prestige. Since the AAU's founding, it has "been a
grouping of the elite in the American university world", and "[n]ew
presidents of nonmember universities often list gaining admission to the
AAU as a goal of their administration."
For example, in 2010 the chancellor of nonmember
North Carolina State University
described it as "the pre-eminent research-intensive membership group.
To be a part of that organization is something N.C. State aspires to."
A spokesman for nonmember
University of Connecticut
called it "perhaps the most elite organization in higher education.
You'd probably be hard-pressed to find a major research university that
didn't want to be a member of the AAU."
In 2012, the newly elected chancellor of
University of Massachusetts Amherst
a nonmember of AAU, reaffirmed the objective of elevating the campus to
AAU standards and the hope of becoming a member in the near future, and
called it a distinctive status.
Because of the lengthy and difficult entrance process,
boards of trustees
, state legislators, and donors often see membership as evidence of the quality of a university.
The AAU acts as a
at its headquarters in
Washington, D.C.
for research and higher education funding and for policy and regulatory
issues affecting research universities. The association holds two
meetings annually, both in Washington. Separate meetings are held for
university presidents
and other officials. Because the meetings are private, they offer the
opportunity for discussion without media coverage. Prominent government
officials, business leaders, and others often speak to the groups.
Thomas A. Bartlett
Robert M. Rosenzweig
Cornelius J. Pings
Robert M. Berdahl
Hunter R. Rawlings III
Mary Sue Coleman
, AAU members accounted for 58 percent
of U.S. universities' research grants and contract income and 52 percent of all
awarded in the United States. Since 1999, 43 percent of all
winners and 74 percent of winners at U.S. institutions have been
affiliated with an AAU university. Approximately two-thirds of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences
2006 Class of Fellows are affiliated with an AAU university. The faculties at AAU universities include 2,993 members of the
United States National Academies
(82 percent of all members): the
National Academy of Sciences
National Academy of Engineering
Institute of Medicine
Undergraduate students: 1,044,759; 7 percent nationally
Undergraduate degrees awarded: 235,328; 17 percent nationally
Graduate students: 418,066; 20 percent nationally
Non professional master's degrees awarded: 106,971; 19 percent nationally
Professional doctorate and masters degrees awarded: 20,859; 25 percent nationally
Research doctorates awarded: 22,747; 52 percent nationally
Postdoctoral fellows: 30,430; 67 percent nationally
Students studying abroad: 57,205
National Merit/Achievement Scholars (2004): 5,434; 63 percent nationally
Faculty: approximately 72,000
AAU membership is by invitation only, which requires an affirmative
vote of three-fourths of current members. Invitations are considered
periodically, based in part on an assessment of the breadth and quality
of university programs of research and graduate education, as well as
undergraduate education. The association ranks its members using four
criteria: research spending, the percentage of faculty who are members
of the National Academies, faculty awards, and
Non-member universities whose research and education profile exceeds
that of a number of current members may be invited to join the
association; current members whose research and education profile falls
significantly below that of other current members or below the criteria
for admission of new members will be subject to further review and
possible discontinuation of membership.
A vote by two-thirds of the member institutions can revoke membership for poor rankings.
annual dues are $139,500.
All 71 U.S. members of the AAU are also classified as
Highest Research Activity (R1) Universities
Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education
, as are four of the five former AAU members.
citation needed
Current members
State or province
Engineering program
Land-Grant Institution
Federally funded R&D exp.
(Dollars in thousands)
Arizona State University
Boston University
Brandeis University
Brown University
California Institute of Technology
Carnegie Mellon University
Case Western Reserve University
Columbia University
Cornell University
Dartmouth College
Duke University
Emory University
George Washington University
District of Columbia
Georgia Institute of Technology
Harvard University
Indiana University Bloomington
Johns Hopkins University
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
McGill University
Michigan State University
New York University
Northwestern University
Ohio State University
Pennsylvania State University
Princeton University
Purdue University
Rice University
Rutgers University–New Brunswick
Stanford University
Stony Brook University
Texas A&M University
Tufts University
Tulane University
University at Buffalo
University of Arizona
University of California, Berkeley
University of California, Davis
University of California, Irvine
University of California, Los Angeles
University of California, Riverside
University of California, San Diego
University of California, Santa Barbara
University of California, Santa Cruz
University of Chicago
University of Colorado Boulder
University of Florida
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
University of Iowa
University of Kansas
University of Maryland, College Park
University of Miami
University of Michigan
University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
University of Missouri
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
University of Notre Dame
University of Oregon
University of Pennsylvania
University of Pittsburgh
University of Rochester
University of South Florida
University of Southern California
University of Texas at Austin
University of Toronto
University of Utah
University of Virginia
University of Washington
University of Wisconsin–Madison
Vanderbilt University
Washington University in St. Louis
Yale University
State or province
Catholic University of America
Washington, D.C.
Clark University
Iowa State University
Syracuse University
University of Nebraska–Lincoln
25,820 (Fall 2018)
George Washington
UNC-Chapel Hill
UC Santa Barbara
Carnegie Mellon
class=notpageimage|
A map of the AAU schools, with private schools marked blue and public schools marked red. Five private schools in
are not labeled separately due to their close geographic proximity: Boston University, Brandeis, Harvard, MIT, and Tufts.
In 2014, the AAU supported the proposed
Research and Development Efficiency Act
arguing that the legislation "can lead to a long-needed reduction in
the regulatory burden currently imposed on universities and their
faculty members who conduct research on behalf of the federal
According to the AAU, "too often federal requirements" for accounting
for federal grant money "are ill-conceived, ineffective, and/or
This wastes the researchers' times and "reduces the time they can
devote to discovery and innovation and increases institutional
compliance costs."
Similar organizations in other countries
Similar organizations around the world include the
(United Kingdom),
League of European Research Universities
BRICS Universities League
Association of East Asian Research Universities
(mainland China, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Taiwan),
(Japan), and the
U15 Group of Canadian Research Universities
citation needed
List of higher education associations and alliances
List of research universities in the United States
The Association of American Universities was founded by the
University of California
University of Chicago
Catholic University of America
Clark University
Columbia University
Cornell University
Harvard University
Johns Hopkins University
University of Michigan
Princeton University
University of Pennsylvania
Stanford University
University of Wisconsin
Yale University
, all of which were its first members.
Over $15.9 billion: NIH: $9.1 billion, 60 percent of total academic research funding. Research Funding:
National Science Foundation
: $2.0 billion, 63 percent of total academic research funding
Department of Defense
: $1.2 billion, 56 percent of total academic research funding
Department of Energy
: $505.2 million, 63 percent of total academic research funding
: $673.2 million, 57 percent of total academic research funding
Department of Agriculture
: $271.9 million, 41 percent of total academic research funding.
Although Emory shares a joint engineering department with Georgia Tech, the program is accredited through Georgia Tech.
While the funding numbers of the
Indiana University School of Medicine
are reported through IUB, IUSM is accredited through its main campus at
Indiana University Indianapolis
has confirmed that MIT is eligible to apply for grants that are
available only to land-grant institutions, the State of Massachusetts
chooses to allocate its federal capacity appropriations to the
University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
As members of the
Commonwealth System of Higher Education
, Penn State and Pittsburgh are privately governed but receive funding from the Pennsylvania state government.
The University of California, Berkeley
is closely tied with the LCME-accredited
University of California, San Francisco
, which only provides graduate-level courses. The two universities share a
University of Colorado School of Medicine
, a LCME accredited school of medicine, is affiliated with the University of Colorado Boulder.
Chapel Hill offers an ABET accredited Biomedical Engineering degree
jointly with North Carolina State University. The engineering courses
are offered through the NC State College of Engineering, while the
medical courses are offered through UNC Chapel Hill.
Departed as a result of "institutional emphases and energies" that differed from the other AAU members.
Departed because of a shift in the AAU's emphasis to large research universities.
Iowa State departed claiming that AAU's internal ranking indicators unfairly favor institutions with high levels of
funding and noted that its strength is not in biomedical research because the school does not have a medical school.
of a dispute over how to count nonfederal grants, Syracuse voluntarily
withdrew from the AAU in 2011. The Chronicle of Higher Education
reported that after "it became clear that Syracuse wouldn't meet the
association's revised membership criteria, university officials decided
that they would leave the organization voluntarily, rather than face a
vote like Nebraska's, and notified the leadership of their intentions."
from the AAU. Chancellor Harvey Perlman said that the lack of an
on-campus medical school (the Medical Center is a separate campus of the
University of Nebraska system) and the AAU's disregarding of
USDA-funded agricultural research in its metrics hurt the university's
performance in the association's internal ranking system. In 2010
Perlman stated that had Nebraska not been part of the AAU, the Big Ten
Conference would likely not have invited it to become the athletic
conference's 12th member.
"Colleges Will Co-operate: Organization of the Association of American Universities".
The Washington Post
. March 1, 1900. p. 2.
Association Of American Colleges And Universities
December 21, 2018, at the
Wayback Machine
Tax Exempt Organization Search
Internal Revenue Service
. December 20, 2018.
"Case Western President Named Head of AAU"
. Inside Higher Ed.
from the original on February 19, 2020
"AAU Elects University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Chancellor Robert J. Jones as Next Chair"
. Association of American Universities.
from the original on March 1, 2024
"Editorial: Association of American Universities"
Educational Review
405. April 1900.
from the original on May 11, 2022
"For Uniform Requirements: Universities Will Fix Standard For Higher Degrees".
The Baltimore Sun
;. March 1, 1900. p. 2.
"The Association of American Universities: A Century of Service to Higher Education 1900–2000"
. Association of American Universities.
from the original on March 8, 2018
Rosenzweig, Robert M. (2001).
The Political University: Policy, Politics, and Presidential Leadership in the American Research University
. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. p. 20.
from the original on July 13, 2021
Rosenzweig, Robert M. (2001).
The Political University: Policy, Politics, and Presidential Leadership in the American Research University
. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. p. 21.
from the original on May 11, 2022
"Membership Policy | Association of American Universities (AAU)"
Fain, Paul (April 21, 2010).
"As AAU Admits Georgia Tech to Its Exclusive Club, Other Universities Await the Call"
Chronicle of Higher Education
from the original on June 11, 2011
Hine, Chris (June 13, 2010).
"Nebraska has it all to attract Big Ten, most importantly AAU membership"
Chicago Tribune
from the original on September 6, 2011
UMass Amherst: Kumble R. Subbaswamy – Feature Story
July 11, 2012, at the
Wayback Machine
. Umass.edu (May 13, 2012). Retrieved on 2013-07-15.
AAU Facts and Figures
September 12, 2008, at the
Wayback Machine
. Accessed August 24, 2008.
"Membership Policy | Association of American Universities (AAU)"
from the original on March 16, 2022
Abourezk, Kevin (April 29, 2011).
"Research universities group ends UNL's membership"
Lincoln Journal Star
from the original on May 3, 2011
Selingo, Jeffrey J. (April 29, 2011).
"U. of Nebraska-Lincoln Is Voted Out of Assn. of American Universities"
Chronicle of Higher Education
from the original on May 2, 2011
"ISU ends membership with prestigious Association of American Universities"
. Associate of American Universities.
"Accredited MD Programs in the United States"
. Liaison Committee on Medical Education.
from the original on May 16, 2018
"AAU Peer Institutions"
. August 10, 2016.
from the original on May 14, 2018
"ABET ACCREDITED PROGRAM SEARCH"
from the original on May 17, 2018
"Land-Grant Colleges and Universities"
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
"Higher Education Research and Development (HERD) Survey"
National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics
"Dartmouth Joins the Association of American Universities | Dartmouth News"
news.dartmouth.edu
. November 6, 2019.
from the original on November 7, 2019
"Accreditation and Assessment"
Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering
. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology & Emory University School of Medicine.
from the original on May 17, 2018
Keag, Kelsey (September 15, 2022).
"Luddy's B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering program achieves ABET accreditation"
"The U.S. Land-Grant University System: Overview and Role in Agricultural Research"
. The U.S. Land-Grant University System: Overview and Role in Agricultural Research Congressional Research Service
"Accredited U.S. Programs"
Hernandez-Jason, Scott (November 6, 2019).
"Radical excellence: UC Santa Cruz joins Association of American Universities"
. Archived from
on November 6, 2019
"Accredited U.S. Programs"
"Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering"
Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering
. Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering @ UNC & NC State.
from the original on May 17, 2018
"The U invited to join the Association of American Universities | @theU"
from the original on November 7, 2019
"Three Leading Research Universities Join the Association of American Universities (AAU)"
from the original on April 29, 2020
O'Connell, The Most Rev. David M.
"From the President's Desk"
. The Catholic University of America.
from the original on June 1, 2013
Peter Schmidt, "Clark U. Leaves Association of American Universities; Others May Follow" (September 10, 1999).
Chronicle of Higher Education
"Iowa State concludes its AAU membership"
Iowa State University
(Press release).
from the original on April 21, 2022
Jaschik, Scott (April 22, 2022).
"Iowa State announces its departure from AAU"
Inside Higher Ed
Selingo, Jeffrey J. (May 2, 2011).
"Facing an Ouster From an Elite Group of Universities, Syracuse U. Says It Will Withdraw"
Chronicle of Higher Education
from the original on May 4, 2011
Lewin, Tamar (May 3, 2011).
"American Universities Group Votes to Expel Nebraska"
The New York Times
"AAU Statement on the Research and Development Efficiency Act"
. Association of American Universities. July 14, 2014. Archived from
on July 25, 2014
Official website