School of economic thought
Carnegie School
school of economic thought
originally formed at the Graduate School of Industrial Administration (GSIA), the current
Tepper School of Business
, of Carnegie Institute of Technology, the current
Carnegie Mellon University
, especially during the 1950s to 1970s.
Faculty at the Graduate School of Industrial Administration are known for formulating two "seemingly incompatible"
bounded rationality
rational expectations
. Bounded rationality was developed by
Herbert A. Simon
Oliver Williamson
. Rational expectations were developed by
and later translated into
macroeconomic theory
Robert Lucas Jr.
Leonard Rapping
Depending on author and context, the term "Carnegie School" can
refer to either both branches or only the bounded rationality branch,
sometimes with the qualifier "Carnegie School of organization theory".
The commonality between both branches is the use of
dynamic optimization
techniques derived from
production theory
and the early use of computers to solve planning and optimization
problems. Along with other, mostly Midwestern universities, the rational
expectations branch is considered part of
freshwater economics
, while the bounded rationality branch has been credited with originating
behavioral economics
economics of organization
Graduate School of Industrial Administration
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
was founded in the late 1940s, after receiving a grant by
William Larimer Mellon Sr.
to enable graduate instruction in business and economics for the
engineers the CIT already produced. This superseded an initial attempt
to "restart" the economics department, which had lapsed during
. The founding dean was
George Leland Bach
, initial faculty hires included
William W. Cooper
Herbert A. Simon
. Other early appointees were
Abraham Charnes
Franco Modigliani
GSIA was set up as a "new look" business school, moving beyond the case-based method of instruction popularized by
Harvard Business School
, to incorporate scientific methods of management. The economics faculty was folded into the business school.
In 1956, Carnegie Tech obtained an
computer, jointly acquired by GSIA and the engineering and mathematics
departments, but housed in the basement of the business school. Along
with the computer,
joined the faculty, with Perlis being put in charge of the computing facilities.
Edward Feigenbaum
at the time a student at Carnegie Tech, was sufficiently intrigued to
transfer to GSIA. All three, along with Herb Simon, would later receive
for their contributions to
computer science
The focus of the research was on
organizational behavior
and the application of
decision analysis
management science
as well as theories such as
bounded rationality
to the understanding of the organization and the firm.
"The astonishing thing about Carnegie is that it joined
two fundamental and seemingly incompatible strands of research. One
dealt with bounded rationality, organization theory, and behavioral
economics. The leading members of that group were Herbert Simon, Richard
Cyert, and James March. The second strand dealt with rational
expectations and efficient markets. Members of that group include Franco
Modigliani (…), John Muth, Merton Miller, and Allan Meltzer, to be
joined later by Robert Lucas (…), Thomas Sargent (…), and Edward
Prescott." — Oliver Williamson
“Carnegie Tech was an amazing place at the time. New
ideas of all kinds were in the air. They were not always consistent with
each other, as in the case of the conflict between John Muth’s
suggestion about how to model expectations as “rational” and [Herbert]
Simon’s notion of “bounded rationality.” We students benefited from the
lively debates among the faculty. We were also encouraged by the faculty
to get involved in the research process even before we had mastered the
details of the literature. In my last two years, I took courses from
Robert Lucas and Oliver Williamson with fellow student Ed Prescott, all
of whom are now Laureates. In retrospect, it was obviously a very
special educational experience.” –
Nobel biographical (2010).
GSIA faculty with notable contributions to their field included later
Nobel Laureates in Economic Sciences
Herbert A. Simon
Franco Modigliani
Robert Lucas Jr
Edward C. Prescott
Finn E. Kydland
(jointly 2004), and
Lars Peter Hansen
(2013). In addition, later Nobel Laureates
Oliver Williamson
(2010) attended GSIA as Ph.D. students.
while heavily favored to receive the Prize for his pioneering work on
rational expectations, was not included in 1995 or any other year
The organizational branch included
along with later GSIA dean and university president
and graduate students Oliver Williamson,
William Starbuck
A number of later
recipients also had their roots at GSIA, before the
Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science
was founded in 1968. These include
(1966, the inaugural recipient),
Herbert A. Simon
(jointly 1975), and
Edward Feigenbaum
(1994, jointly with
The interdisciplinary approach featured faculty at Carnegie Mellon's modern departments of
economics, business
computer science
psychology, statistics and data science
social and decision sciences
Herbert Simon (1988) and his frequent collaborators Abraham
Charnes and William Cooper (both 1982, jointly with Carnegie physicist
Richard J. Duffin
) also received the
John von Neumann Theory Prize
for their pioneering contributions to
operations research
management science
Carlton E. Lemke
John Forbes Nash Jr.
, a Carnegie undergraduate), who wrote his dissertation at GSIA under Abraham Charnes, preceded all four.
Notable members of the Carnegie School
George Leland Bach
University of Chicago
1940, economics) was the founding dean of GSIA when he was tasked in
1946 to restart economics education at Carnegie. He left in 1962 for
Stanford University
, with the brief to make Stanford’s business school look more like GSIA.
William W. Cooper
(PhD unfinished
Columbia University
1942, business) joined Bach from Chicago as the second faculty on the
yet-to-founded new business school in 1946. Considered one of the
Management Science
jointly with his long-time collaborator Charnes. Became dean of the new
School of Urban and Public Affairs in 1969, leaving Carnegie in 1975
for Harvard and later Texas. Herb Simon’s college dormmate.
Herbert A. Simon
(PhD University of Chicago 1943, political science) joined the
inaugural team of academics at GSIA in 1949, initially as the director
of undergraduate programs. Stayed at Carnegie until his death in 2001,
but left GSIA in 1970 for a joint psychology and computer science
appointment. Received the Turing Award in 1975, jointly with Alan
Newell, and the Economics Nobel Prize in 1978.
Organization theorists
Richard M. Cyert
(PhD Columbia University 1948, economics) joined Carnegie in 1948,
became Dean of GSIA in 1962 and president of Carnegie Mellon in 1972.
Retired in 1990.
Yale University
1953, political science) joined Carnegie in 1953 out of graduate school, left in 1964 first for
University of California, Irvine
, then for Stanford University to help found the California tradition of organizational science.
Oliver E. Williamson
(PhD Carnegie 1963, economics) wrote his dissertation under Cyert on
managerial slack, left in 1963 for UC Berkeley and later Wharton,
received the 2009 economics Nobel Prize (shared with Elinor Ostrom) for
pioneering transaction cost economics.
Operations researchers and industrial engineers
Abraham Charnes
University of Illinois
1947, mathematics) became a member of the GSIA founding team upon
graduation in 1948. Joining up mostly with Cooper, they applied linear
optimization to production and operations problems, somewhat apart from
the Simon group. Left in 1955 for
Purdue University
Northwestern University
, and ultimately settled at
University of Texas
(PhD Carnegie 1962, mathematical economics), considered the “father of the
rational expectations
movement”, at Carnegie from 1956-64 initially as a student, from 1959 as a professor, left for
Michigan State University
Indiana University
after not having been offered tenure.
Charles C. Holt
(PhD University of Chicago 1955, economics) joined GSIA in 1956 from
, became the forecast expert in the HMMS team, known for his
exponential smoothing
method developed with graduate student
Peter R. Winters
University of Wisconsin
Charles P. Bonini
(PhD Carnegie 1962, industrial engineering) at Carnegie as a graduate
student from 1955 to 1959, joined Stanford University as junior faculty
and immediately convinced Oliver Williamson to move in the other
Highly influential books published by researchers of the Carnegie School include, in chronological order:
Administrative Behavior
(1947) by Herbert A. Simon.
An Introduction to Linear Programming
(1953) by Abraham Charnes, William W. Cooper & Alexander Henderson.
(1957) by Herbert A. Simon.
by James G. March and Herbert A. Simon.
Planning Production, Inventory and Work Force
(1960) by Charles A. Holt, Franco Modigliani, John F. Muth, and Herbert A. Simon.
Management Models and Industrial Applications of Linear Programming
(1961) by Abraham Charnes and William W. Cooper.
Statistical Sampling for Accounting Information
(1962) by Richard M. Cyert and H. Justin Davidson.
A Behavioral Theory of the Firm
(1963) by Richard M. Cyert and James G. March.
The Relative Stability of Monetary Velocity and the Investment Multiplier
and Franco Modigliani.
The Carnegie Tech Management Game
Kalman J. Cohen
William R. Dill
Alfred A. Kuehn
Peter R. Winters
Theory of the Firm: Resource Allocation in a Market Economy
(1965) by Kalman J. Cohen and Richard M. Cyert.
The Sciences of the Artificial
(1969) by Herbert A. Simon.
Human Problem Solving
(1972) by Allen Newell and Herbert A. Simon.
Bayesian Analysis and Uncertainty in Economic Theory
(1987) by Richard M. Cyert and Morris H. DeGroot.
Models of Business Cycles
(1987) by Robert E. Lucas, jr.
Decisions and Organizations
(1989) by James G. March.
In addition to the books, a number of articles authored or co-authored
by members of the Carnegie school became foundational within their
"A Linear Decision Rule for Production and Employment
Scheduling" (1955) by Charles C. Holt, Franco Modigliani, and Herbert A.
Management Science
"Dynamic Programming Under Uncertainty with a Quadratic Criterion Function" (1956) by Herbert A. Simon,
"Forecasting Seasonals and Trends by Exponentially Weighted Moving Averages" (1957) by Charles C. Holt,
Office of Naval Research
, reprint (2004)
International Journal of Forecasting
"Derivation of a Linear Decision Rule for Production and Employment"
(1958) by Charles C. Holt, Franco Modigliani, and John F. Muth,
Management Science
"The Cost of Capital, Corporation Finance and the Theory of Investment" (1958) by Franco Modigliani and Merton H. Miller,
American Economic Review
"Forecasting Sales by Exponentially Weighted Moving Averages" (1960) by
Peter R. Winters
Management Science
"Rational Expectations and the Theory of Price Movements" (1961) by John F. Muth,
Oliver E. Williamson (1996). "Transaction cost economics and the Carnegie connection".
J Econ Beh & Org
31:2, pp. 149-155
Esther-Mirjam Sent (1998).
The evolving rationality of rational expectations : an assessment of Thomas Sargent's achievements
Raymond Augustine Bauer, Kenneth J. Gergen (1968).
The study of policy formation
. National Planning Association. p.115.
Jens Beckert, Milan Zafirovski (2006).
International encyclopedia of economic sociology
Anderson, Marc H.; Lemken, Russell K. (2019).
Empirical Assessment of the Influence of March and Simon's
Organizations: The Realized Contribution and Unfulfilled Promise of a
Journal of Management Studies
10.1111/joms.12527
Quotations related to
Carnegie School