School for computer science in the United States
SCS at Carnegie Mellon
School of Computer Science
Carnegie Mellon University
, Pennsylvania, US is a school for
computer science
established in 1988.  It has been consistently ranked among the best computer science programs over the decades. As of 2024
U.S. News & World Report
ranks the graduate program as tied for No. 1 with
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Stanford University
University of California, Berkeley
The Gates-Hillman Complex, home to Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science.
Researchers from Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science have made fundamental contributions to the fields of
artificial intelligence
computer networks
distributed systems
parallel processing
programming languages
computational biology
language technologies
human–computer interaction
software engineering
Herbert A. Simon
, in conjunction with the faculty from the Graduate School of Industrial Administration (GSIA, renamed
Tepper School of Business
in 2004), staff from the newly formed Computation Center, and key
administrators created the Computer Science Department, one of the first
such departments in the nation. Their mission statement was "to
cultivate a course of study leading to the
computer science
, a program that would exploit the new technology and assist in establishing a discipline of
computer science
The educational program, formally accepted in October 1965, drew its
first graduate students from several existing academic disciplines:
electrical engineering
, and the interdisciplinary Systems and Communications Sciences program in the
Graduate School of Industrial Administration
. The department was housed within the
Mellon College of Science
With support from Newell, Simon,
the computer science department began a two-year status as a "floating"
department in the early months of 1986.  Then, the Department began to
grow, both academically and financially. In 1988, the School of Computer
Science was established, among the first such schools in the country.
The Computer Science Department was the original department within the
Structure in the 1970s
During the 1970s the Computer Science Department offered only a PhD
study program, with no master's degree as an intermediate step.  The PhD
program required a minimum of six years of residency.  It was called
the "do or die" program among the graduate students, because a student
could not drop a PhD and receive a master's degree.  It had quickly
focused on computer networking, operating systems (
Organizational units
Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department
Computer Science Department (CSD)
Human–Computer Interaction Institute
Software and Societal Systems Department (S3D): Its research and education focus is on
software systems
, which spans not only classical
software engineering
but also topics such as
. S3D is a distinct entity from the
Software Engineering Institute
(SEI). SEI is a
, which is sponsored by the
U.S. Department of Defense
and does not offer educational programs.
Language Technologies Institute
Machine Learning Department (MLD)
Robotics Institute
Gates and Hillman Centers
Gates and Hillman Centers
memorial bridge has LEDs that glow different colours at night.
The Gates Center for Computer Science and the Hillman Center for
Future-Generation Technologies are home to much of the School of
Computer Science. The $98 million complex was opened in 2009.
It has 217,000-square-foot (20,200 m
) of floor space, including about 310 offices, 11 conference rooms, 32 labs, 8,000 square feet (740 m
) of project space and the Planetary Robotics Center. It also houses 12 classrooms, including a 250-seat auditorium.
Additionally, the Gates Center connects to the Purnell Center, which houses the School of Drama, via the
Memorial Footbridge. The bridge represents Professor Pausch's own
devotion to linking computer science and entertainment, as he was a
co-founder of Carnegie Mellon's
Entertainment Technology Center
Mack Scogin Merril Elam
, Georgia were the lead architects.
The Gates and Hillman Centers have received
Gold Certification.
Carnegie Mellon University traditions
Carnegie Mellon's
, now in their 14th year, are hosted by the School of Computer Science during every
Spring Carnival
celebration. The Mobots (short for
follow a slalom course painted in the sidewalk outside of Wean Hall.
The Mobot Races used to include a MoboJoust competition, but it has not
been held since 2002
to avoid damaging the Mobots.
is a yearly celebration of computer science that
started in 2003. The event features a variety of activities, including
exhibits, workshops and games, in addition to an evening talent show.
SCS research professor
is credited with the invention of the smiley face
He suggested the emoticon on an electronic board in 1982 as a way for
board readers to know when an author was joking. The text of Fahlman's
original post was lost for nearly 20 years but was later recovered from
19-Sep-82 11:44    Scott E  Fahlman             :-)
From: Scott E  Fahlman <Fahlman at Cmu-20c>
I propose that the following character sequence for joke markers:
Read it sideways.  Actually, it is probably more economical to mark
things that are NOT jokes - given current trends.  For this, use
Tartan Racing is a collaboration between Carnegie Mellon and
General Motors Corporation
that competes in the
DARPA Grand Challenge
. The Grand Challenge is a competition for
driverless cars
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
(DARPA). Tartan Racing is led by Carnegie Mellon
William L. "Red" Whittaker
In 2007, Tartan Racing won the
DARPA Urban Challenge
in which 11 autonomous ground vehicles raced over urban roadways. In
the challenge, team vehicles were required to obey all California
driving laws, share the road with other drivers and robotic cars, and
complete the course in under six hours. Tartan Racing won the $2 million
cash prize with Boss, a reworked 2007
. Averaging about 14 miles (23 km) an hour for a 55-mile (89 km) trip, Boss beat the second-place team,
Racing, by just under 20 minutes.
SCS honors and awards
The School established a number of honors and awards.
SCS Endowed Chairs
Finmeccanica Chair
A. Nico Habermann Chair in the School of Computer Science
Litton Faculty Fellows
Allen Newell Award for Research Excellence
Herbert A. Simon Award for Teaching Excellence in Computer Science
The Robert Doherty Prize for Excellence in Education
Carnegie Mellon University Undergraduate Academic Advising Award
Faculty members from the School of Computer Science have received
international recognition for achievements within their fields. These
honors include memberships and fellowships in the
National Academy of Sciences
National Academy of Engineering
American Association for the Advancement of Science
Association for Computing Machinery
Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation
MacArthur Fellowship Program
Guggenheim Fellowship Program
Notably, thirteen SCS faculty and alumni have won the
A. M. Turing Award
Association for Computing Machinery
's most prestigious award,
often called the "Nobel Prize of computing." These include
Edmund M. Clarke
of the recent active faculty, in addition to Emeritus Faculty
and former faculty
Geoffrey Hinton
Notable faculty
was a professor of
computer science
human-computer interaction
and design. Pausch was also a best-selling author, who became known around the world after he gave
"The Last Lecture" speech
on September 18, 2007 at Carnegie Mellon. Pausch was instrumental in the development of
, a computer teaching tool. He also co-founded Carnegie Mellon's
Entertainment Technology Center
. Randy Pausch died on July 25, 2008.
Professor of Computer Science in the Institute for Software Research at
Carnegie Mellon University
Shaw published seminal work on software engineering, and has lately
become well known for her work on computer science education. Shaw was
National Medal of Technology and Innovation
on November 21, 2014.
is a Consulting Professor in the Computer Science Department, where he also received his PhD in 2005. Von Ahn was named a
MacArthur Fellow
in 2006 (called the "genius" grant).
He also created Games With a Purpose, a website where users can play
games to help train computers to solve complicated problems, in addition
William L. "Red" Whittaker
is a roboticist and research professor of robotics at Carnegie Mellon who led the Tartan Racing team to victory in the 2007
DARPA Grand Challenge
. He is also leading a team of Carnegie Mellon students to win the
Google Lunar X Prize
Whittaker is the Fredkin Professor of Robotics at the Robotics
Institute and the director of the Robotics Institute's Field Robotics
since its creation in 1983.  Whittaker earned his master's and doctoral
degrees in Civil Engineering from Carnegie Mellon in the late 1970s.
is the University Professor of Computer Science and Robotics and Moza Bint Nasser Chair at the School of Computer Science at
Carnegie Mellon University
. His areas of interest include
artificial intelligence
human-computer interaction
. He received the ACM Turning award in 1994. He received the French
Legion of Honour
award in 2001. He was also awarded the Honda Prize in 2005, and the
Vannevar Bush Award
Reddy was the founding directory of the
Robotics Institute
and the Dean of School of Computer Science. He was one of the founders of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence
and was its President from 1987 to 1989.
is a U.A. and Helen Whitaker University Professor of Computer Science
and Robotics. He is the director of the Quality of Life Technology
Engineering Research Center at Carnegie Mellon. His main areas of
interest include
computer vision
, manipulators,
autonomous mobile robots
is a research professor at the Robotics Institute with interests in
artificial intelligence
He worked in the RI's Mobile Robot Lab, a research space designed to
produce robots able to move through intricate indoor and outdoor areas.
He also helped develop
Moravec's paradox
in the 1980s, which states that it is more difficult for computers to learn basic human instincts than human reason.
Manuela M. Veloso
is the Herbert A. Simon Professor at the School of Computer Science,
Carnegie Mellon University. She is the President of the International
RoboCup Federation that she co-founded and the President Elect of the
Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. She is a
fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence, a fellow
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and a
Fellow of IEEE.  Her research focus on the scientific and engineering
challenges of creating teams of intelligent agents in complex, dynamic,
and uncertain environments, in particular adversarial environments, such
as robot soccer, that Cooperate, Observe the world, Reason, Act, and
Learn. She currently researches and develops effective indoor mobile
service robots aiming at contributing to a multi-robot, multi-human
symbiotic relationship, in which robots and humans coordinate and
cooperate as a function of their limitations and strengths.
is the Bruce Nelson Professor of Computer Science and a
winner. His wife
are also professors in the School of Computer Science.
is the FORE Systems Professor in the Institute for Software Research and served as the Chief Technologist at the
Federal Trade Commission
Alexander Waibel
has introduced cross-lingual communication systems, such as consecutive
and simultaneous interpreting systems on a variety of platforms. In
fundamental research on machine learning, he is known for the Time Delay
Neural Network, the first Convolutional Neural Network trained by
gradient descent, using backpropagation. He is a member of the German
National Academy of Science and a Fellow of the IEEE, ISCA and the
Explorers Club. Waibel is the recipient of the IEEE James L. Flanagan
Speech and Audio Processing and of the ACM ICMI Sustained
Achievement Award.
Kathleen Carley
is a computational social scientist and a professor at the Software and Societal Systems Department.
is a professor at the Software and Societal Systems Department.
is a Founders University Professor of Computer Science Emeritus and former Dean of the School of Computer Science.
Daniel Siewiorek
is the Buhl University Professor Emeritus at CMU.
Michael Ian Shamos
is a Distinguished Career Professor in the Software and Societal Systems Department and Language Technologies Institute.
Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department
Robotics Institute
Software Engineering Institute
Language Technologies Institute
Human-Computer Interaction Institute
"US News | Best Computer Science Schools"
"A history of SCS | SCS25 - Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science"
Carnegie Mellon University.
"Feb. 20: Henry L. Hillman Foundation Gives Carnegie Mellon $10 Million For Research Building in New Computer Science Complex"
. Archived from
"SCS Complex Information and Blog » Overview"
. Archived from
Heinrichs, Allison M. (September 19, 2007).
"Professor diagnosed with cancer offers his final words for the CMU community"
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
. Archived from
University, Carnegie Mellon.
"Press Release: Carnegie Mellon's Gates and Hillman Centers Awarded LEED Gold Certification - News - Carnegie Mellon University"
"Mobot: Winners"
. Archived from
on March 15, 2009
"SCS Day 2015 - A Celebration of Diversity in SCS"
"SMILEY:31 YEARS OLD AND NEVER LOOKED HAPPIER!"
"Tartan Racing @ Carnegie Mellon"
tartanracing.org
Carnegie Mellon University.
"Nov. 4: Carnegie Mellon Tartan Racing Wins $2 Million DARPA Urban Challenge"
. Archived from
"SCS: Achievements"
. Cs.cmu.edu. Archived from
on June 23, 2012
"SCS Faculty Awards"
"A.M. Turing Award"
. Archived from
"SCS FACULTY AWARDS"
"Untitled Document"
"President Obama Honors Nation's Top Scientists and Innovators"
. 2014-10-03 – via
National Archives
2011-06-09 at the
Wayback Machine
"Google to Finance Moon Challenge Contest"
washingtonpost.com
"William L. "Red" Whittaker"
. Archived from
. Archived from
"Origins of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence"
verification needed
"Foundations and Grand Challenges of Artificial Intelligence"
verification needed
"Robotics Institute: Mobile Robot Lab"
. Archived from
on May 14, 2008
Further reading
Fenton, Edwin (2000).
Carnegie Mellon 1900–2000: A Centennial History
. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Mellon University Press.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to
Gates-Hillman Complex
Official website
40.44371°N 79.94443°W
40.44371; -79.94443