40.44222°N 79.946417°W
40.44222; -79.946417
Carnegie Mellon University College of Engineering
Hamerschlag, Roberts, and Scott Halls are three major facilities of the College of Engineering
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Engineering School
Andrew Carnegie
Doctoral students
5000 Forbes Avenue
engineering.cmu.edu
Carnegie Mellon University College of Engineering
(formerly known as the
Carnegie Institute of Technology
) is the academic unit that manages engineering research and education at
Carnegie Mellon University
. The College can trace its origins from
Andrew Carnegie's
founding of the Carnegie Technical Schools. Today, The College of Engineering has seven departments of study.
By 1905, the massive buildings of the Carnegie Technical Schools were being constructed in a field east of the
University of Pittsburgh
The first students of the School of Science and Technology began
classes in unfinished buildings, still surrounded by new construction.
The school initially offered two- and three-year programs to train the
children of Pittsburgh's working class. After the merger between
Carnegie Tech and the
Mellon Institute of Industrial Research
the newly formed Carnegie Mellon University's College of Engineering
and Science was divided into the Carnegie Institute of Technology
(engineering) and the
Mellon College of Science
Subsequently, the Carnegie Institute of Technology was re-branded as
the College of Engineering. The Department of Mechanical Engineering was
organized by professor
Willibald Trinks
who thereafter headed it for 38 years.
About the College of Engineering
Enrollment for or the 2017–2018 academic year was 1,783 full-time undergraduate, 1,383 master's, and 703 doctoral students.
The college employs 207 faculty members whose research is recognized and supported by such sources as the
National Science Foundation
National Institutes of Health
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
Environmental Protection Agency
As part of Carnegie Mellon University, the College of Engineering works
to carry out the university's mission of “changing the needs of society
by building on its traditions of innovation, problem-solving and
interdisciplinarity”.
The College's Office of the Dean is housed in Scaife Hall, and
the college's primary facilities include Hamerschlag Hall, Roberts
Engineering Hall, Doherty Hall, and Scott Hall, in addition to Scaife.
Engineering and Public Policy
The Department of Engineering and Public Policy, informally known as
"EPP", is a pioneering, interdisciplinary academic department within the
Carnegie Mellon University College of Engineering. EPP combines
technical analysis with
policy analysis
, in order to address problems in which knowledge of technical details is critical to
decision making
The primary purpose of the EPP program is to educate students to work
at the interface of the social and engineering sciences, through use of
interdisciplinary
curriculum based equally on
social analysis
engineering analysis
EPP offers a double-major undergraduate degree, multiple masters degree
programs, and a doctoral studies program. Undergraduate students
Bachelor of Science
degree from one of the traditional engineering departments plus EPP.
EPP works in a variety of research areas on problems that involve the interaction of technology with society.  These include:
Energy and environment (including
Information and communication technology
Management of technical innovation
Across these four focal areas, the department addresses issues in technology and organizations, and in technology and
economic development
, focusing in particular on
EPP also develops new software tools for the support of policy analysis
and research, and studies issues in engineered systems and
"US News Engineer Ranking"
. Archived from
W. Trinks, M. H. Mawhinney, Robert A. Shannon, Richard J. Reed, J. R. Vernon Garvey (2004).
"Industrial Furnaces 6th Edition"
. John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, New Jersey
"Enrollment Facts 2017 by College"
. Archived from
About the College of Engineering: distinguishing characteristics
July 15, 2010, at the
Wayback Machine
"College of Engineering vision and mission"
. Archived from
Fenton, Edwin (2000).
Carnegie Mellon 1900-2000: A Centennial History
. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Mellon University Press.
Carnegie Mellon University College of Engineering official website
Carnegie Mellon Nanofabrication Facility