Fine arts school of Carnegie Mellon University
Carnegie Mellon College of Fine Arts
College of Fine Arts, Carnegie Mellon University
Architecture students in the CFA building
College of Fine Arts
Carnegie Mellon University
oversees the Schools of
along with its associated centers, studios, and galleries.
The College of Fine Arts has its roots in 1900, when the
institution was first founded as Carnegie Technical Schools.  The School
of Fine and Applied Arts was one of the original four schools within
Carnegie Technical Schools and later became the College of Fine Arts.
Officially founded in 1905 as the first comprehensive arts learning
institution in the United States, CFA has educated outstanding artists,
architects, designers, theater artists and musicians who have made
important contributions to culture in the United States and the world
for almost a century.
The College of Fine Arts concentrates on the education of
professionals in the arts in the broader context of Carnegie Mellon
University.  Beyond their education in their chosen field, through
required and elective course work, students are involved with other
disciplines within CFA and within the other colleges of the University.
Further, the college’s location in the Oakland District of Pittsburgh
with its unique density of cultural resources (The
Carnegie Museum of Art
Carnegie Museum of Natural History
Carnegie Library
University of Pittsburgh
Hillman Library
Frick Fine Arts Building
Phipps Botanical Conservatory
,) places CFA at the center of a premier cultural environment.
CFA also benefits from the presence of its Miller Institute for Contemporary Art (
In addition, CFA actively promotes integrative and
interdisciplinary practices throughout the Carnegie Mellon University
campus, and currently offers the BXA Intercollege Degree Programs with
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Mellon College of Science
School of Computer Science
The undergraduate degrees are the Bachelor of Humanities and Arts
(BHA), Bachelor of Science and Arts (BSA), and Bachelor of Computer
Science and Arts (BCSA) respectively, and students are to be admitted to
the two corresponding schools at CMU to be enrolled, where they will
develop and experiment with their corresponding disciplines in the forms
of major capstone projects.
CFA alumni have shaped the television, stage and film worlds;
have created work collected in international museums; have composed for
and are performing and conducting in major symphony orchestras, choruses
and opera companies; have built notable buildings, designed building
systems and architectural imaging systems; created significant
innovations in graphic and industrial design; and are professors and
deans in major arts institutions.  These graduates have actively
developed the innovations, inventions, techniques and information
structures in their professional fields.  They have also written,
published and lectured extensively.
The educational and artistic life of the college is interwoven
with a dense calendar of theatre performances, concert, exhibitions,
film and media presentations and lectures by visiting artists,
practitioners and scholars.
Notable alumni include
Christian Borle
Jonathan Borofsky
Philip Pearlstein
Ricky Ian Gordon
Stephen Schwartz
Billy Porter (actor)
Leslie Odom, Jr.
Blair Underwood
Carnegie Mellon School of Design
Carnegie Mellon School of Drama
Carnegie Mellon School of Architecture
Carnegie Mellon School of Music
Carnegie Mellon School of Art
"Miller Institute for Contemporary Art"
Miller Institute for Contemporary Art
"BXA Intercollege Degree Programs - The Programs"
Fenton, Edwin (2000).
Carnegie Mellon 1900-2000: A Centennial History
. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Mellon University Press.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to
College of Fine Arts, Carnegie Mellon University
Official website
40.44415745°N 79.9428695°W
40.44415745; -79.9428695