University in Qatar
Carnegie Mellon University Qatar
Front entrance at sunset
"My heart is in the work" (Andrew Carnegie)
satellite campus
Parent institution
Carnegie Mellon University
Farnam Jahanian
Administrative staff
467 (Fall 2022)
25.31639°N 51.43889°E
25.31639; 51.43889
, 2,400 acres (9.7 km
Cardinal, Gray, and Tartan Plaid
Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar
(Arabic: جامعة كارنيجي ميلون في قطر) is a
satellite campus
Carnegie Mellon University
. This campus is a member of the
Qatar Foundation
and started graduating students in May 2008. It enrolls around 400 students, has 60 faculty and
postdoctoral researchers
, and 90 staff members.
Carnegie Mellon University's campus in Qatar was established in 2004.
It was the fourth U.S. higher education institution to establish a
campus in Qatar. The establishment of the campuses was founded by
Sheikha Moza bint Nasser
, the mother of Qatar's current Emir
Tamim bin Hamad al Thani.
Carnegie Mellon Qatar is part of
a campus on the outskirts of Doha that currently houses eight other
university campuses from the United States and Europe. Education City's
other institutions include
Georgetown University School of Foreign Service
Weill Cornell Medical College
Virginia Commonwealth University
Northwestern University
University College London
The Doha campus of Carnegie Mellon offers the same degree
programs and curricula that students receive at the Pittsburgh campus.
Undergraduate degrees are in
Computer Science
Business Administration
Information Systems
Biological Sciences
(a degree offered in conjunction with
Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar
The campus facilities and upkeep are financed by the Qatar
Foundation. Carnegie Mellon also receives subsidies each year to run the
campus and pay faculty.
It is estimated that Carnegie Mellon has received between $50 and
$60 million per year from the nation of Qatar to operate the Doha
Tuition for the school was $49,610 in 2015.
As of December 2015, the campus had 62 faculty members.
The atrium of Carnegie Mellon Qatar with the university motto
Carnegie Mellon Qatar is housed in a building designed by architects Legorreta + Legorreta (currently known as
The university began occupancy in August 2008. All academics, student
affairs, operations, and events are held in the building.
The East-West Walkway holding an architecture exhibit
Fountain in backyard of Carnegie Mellon University
List of universities and colleges in Qatar
"New academic year sees highest enrollment at Carnegie Mellon Qatar"
. Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar. August 30, 2022
"Official Carnegie Mellon colors"
. cmu.edu. Archived from
"Carnegie Mellon's Mascot"
. Carnegie Mellon University Qatar. Archived from
on 8 December 2015
"Doha's Education City by the numbers: Enrollment, diplomas, faculty, finances"
Washington Post
Stoltzfus, Justin (2016-04-08).
"Advocate questions motive behind Qatar's financial ties to U.S. colleges"
Gulf News Journal
Wikimedia Commons has media related to
Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar
permanent dead link