Academic unit of the Carnegie Mellon College of Fine Arts
The College of Fine Arts Building
The Carnegie Mellon School of Art
Carnegie Mellon University
is a degree-granting institution and a division of the
Carnegie Mellon College of Fine Arts
The School of Art was preceded by the School of Applied Design, founded
in 1906. In 1967, the School of Art (then known as the Department of
Painting & Sculpture) separated from the School of Design and became
devoted to visual fine arts.
The School of Art grants a four-year
Bachelor of Fine Arts
degree and a three-year interdisciplinary
Master of Fine Arts
degree. It has more than 200 undergraduate students and 18 graduate students. In 2016
U.S. News & World Report
ranked the graduate program first in time-based & new media art,
and sixth overall.
Andrew Carnegie
added the School of Applied Design to the recently founded Carnegie
Technical Schools. In 1911 the School of Applied Design became the
Department of Painting and Design, and over the next 40 years it
absorbed programs in sculpture and design from throughout Carnegie
Mellon, and went through multiple renamings. In 1967, Carnegie Tech
merged with the
Mellon Institute of Industrial Research
Carnegie Mellon University
That same year a separate Department of Design was formed and the
modern incarnation of the School of Art emerged, with an emphasis on
visual fine arts.
Academic programs
The undergraduate program offers a
Bachelor of Fine Arts
with concentrations in four major fields:
; Electronic and Time-Based Media;
and site-specific work; and contextual practices. All undergraduate
students take two years of foundation studio in various 2D, 3D, and
time-based media, alongside art history and theory courses. A unique
feature of the program is the inclusion of Concept Studio courses,
alongside foundation studios, that emphasize non-medium specific
approaches to artmaking. Advanced upper-level coursework is completed in
one of the four aforementioned concentrations. Students must complete
either a self-generated year-long project or series of projects in their
senior year to fulfill their Senior Thesis.
The School of Art offers three interdisciplinary bachelor's
degrees: a Bachelor of Arts and Humanities (BHA), a Bachelor of Science
and Arts (BSA), and a Bachelor of Computer Science and Arts (BCSA).
These degrees require fulfillment of full coursework from two selected
majors, one in the School of Art, and one in the other respective
college, as well as BXA General Education and course requirements in the
forms of seminars.
Master of Fine Arts
program is a three-year interdisciplinary studio-focused program, with
an emphasis on "contextual" art practices that manifest themselves in
non-traditional ways, from institutional critique to public
interventions and culture hacking.
Graduate students work closely with faculty advisors throughout the
three years, but are encouraged to take coursework outside of the School
of Art. The MFA program requires a substantial written thesis. The
program is small and highly selective, admitting 6 students per year.
The School of Art places a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary
work and encourages undergraduate and graduate students to engage with
the broader Carnegie Mellon community. The College of Fine Arts houses
Studio for Creative Inquiry
, directed by artist and faculty member
The STUDIO provides artist residencies, artist grants, technical
resources, and hosts lectures and conferences, bringing students from
the School of Art, Human-Computer Interaction, Computational Design, and
other programs throughout the University, into conversation.
The Carnegie Mellon School of Art further benefits from the
surrounding Pittsburgh art scene, which includes museums like the
Carnegie Museum of Art, the Andy Warhol Museum, and the
Mattress Factory
. Students can also cross-register for classes offered at
Pittsburgh Filmmakers
, as well as through the
University of Pittsburgh
Creative Writing
Current and recent full-time faculty
Susanne Slavick
Devan Shimoyama
Paolo Pedercini
Clayton Merrell
, Head of School
Jonathan Borofsky
Elizabeth Carpenter
(evening classes with Roy Hilton (1932-34)
Philip Pearlstein
Philip Pearlstein
Raymond Saunders
"About CMU College of Fine Arts"
Carnegie Mellon University College of Fine Arts
"2016 Best Time-Based Fine Arts Programs"
U.S. News & World Report
"2016 Best Graduate Fine Arts Programs"
U.S. News & World Report
. Archived from
"CMU Bachelor of Fine Arts Curriculum"
"CMU BXA Degrees"
"CMU Master of Fine Arts Degree"
Official website
40.44156°N 79.94292°W
40.44156; -79.94292