Public library system in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
Interior view of the main branch in the Oakland neighborhood
40.442728°N 79.950787°W
40.442728; -79.950787
February 6, 1890
Population served
Other information
www.CarnegieLibrary.org
U.S. National Register of Historic Places
Pittsburgh Landmark – PHLF
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh Main Branch in the city's Oakland neighborhood
Show map of Pittsburgh
Show map of Pennsylvania
Show map of the United States
4400 Forbes Ave.,
9.5 acres (3.8 ha)
Significant dates
Designated PHLF
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
. Its main branch is located in the
neighborhood of Pittsburgh, and it has 19 branch locations throughout the city.  Like hundreds of other
Carnegie libraries
, the construction of the main library, which opened in 1895, and several neighborhood branches, was funded by industrialist
Andrew Carnegie
.  The Pittsburgh area houses the first branches in the United States.
Pittsburgh Photographic Library
repository held by the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh of over 50,000 prints and negatives relating to history of Pittsburgh.
The City of Pittsburgh was originally home to eight Carnegie
libraries constructed at the turn of the twentieth century. In 1881,
Andrew Carnegie offered a US$250,000 grant to the city for the
construction of a public library on the condition that the city provided
the land and annual funding for the maintenance of the property.
The city declined Carnegie's initial offer out of concern that a
publicly funded library was not a state-sanctioned use of public tax
funds.  With the passing of several years and the state legislature's
endorsement of the project, however, the city reconsidered the offer and
reached out to Carnegie in the interest of accepting his grant.
In 1890, the City of Pittsburgh accepted an expanded grant of $1
million for the building of the main library in Oakland and five
branches in the neighborhoods of
, Wylie Avenue (
Mount Washington
While the initial plan only called for those five branches, the city later received another three Carnegie libraries in the
neighborhoods.  Construction on the main library was finished in 1895
while the branch libraries were constructed over the following fifteen
years, ending with the completion of the Homewood branch in 1910.
Six of the original Carnegie library branch locations continue to
serve as public libraries in their respective neighborhoods:
Lawrenceville, West End, Mount Washington, Hazelwood, South Side, and
Homewood.  The East Liberty branch was demolished in the 1960s as part
of a redevelopment plan, and the Wylie Avenue branch was moved to a new
location in 1982.
In January 2022, the 201 members of the United Library Workers (ULW), the union of library staff, which organized with
United Steelworkers
in 2019, ratified their first contract with the library's management.
Environmental service workers and drivers had already been unionized with the
Branches/Locations
Allegheny County Law Library
Downtown and Business
Library of Accessible Media for Pennsylvanians (formerly Library for the Blind and Physically Handicapped) (Bloomfield)
Partnership with suburban branches
For decades, CLP has partnered with suburban area branches, and, in
2014, talks were started seeking innovative ways to combine some
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
reported that nearly 320 rare books, maps, engravings, and other items
had been stolen from the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh's main branch in
Oakland, which houses the system's rare book collection.
The items, including a 1787 document signed by Thomas Jefferson, were
valued at more than $8 million.  In July 2018, a former library
archivist and a Pittsburgh-area bookseller were charged with the thefts,
which took place over a period of two decades.
It was one of the largest rare-book theft cases in history.
According to the criminal complaints detailing alleged scheme, the
archivist said that he "often removed items from the Oliver Room at the
library's main branch in Oakland by carrying individual plates [and]
maps in manila folders, or for books or larger items, by brazenly
rolling them up and walking out." The archivist is alleged to have
turned the rare items over to the bookseller, who would then sell them
through his store.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
Allegheny Regional Asset District
Pennsylvania Library Association
Toker, Franklin
Pittsburgh: An Urban Portrait
University of Pittsburgh Press
"Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh 2009 Annual Report"
. Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. Archived from
on October 31, 2010.
"National Register Information System"
National Register of Historic Places
National Park Service
. July 9, 2010.
"Internet Archive: Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation: PHLF Plaques & Registries"
. January 27, 2007. Archived from
on January 27, 2007
Lowry, Patricia (March 2, 2003).
"Carnegie's Library Legacy"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Archived from
"Historic Milestones"
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
. 2014. Archived from
on January 10, 2014
"Carnegie Library Of Pittsburgh Workers Ratify First Union Contract"
. January 8, 2022
Steelworkers (USW), United.
"Carnegie Library workers ratify first labor agreement"
www.prnewswire.com
(Press release)
"Allegheny County library systems look to cooperate"
post-gazette.com
"Court documents detail theft of rare maps, books, prints from Carnegie Library"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"Two men charged with stealing more than $8 million in rare books from Carnegie Library"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
Works by Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
Project Gutenberg
Works by or about Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
Internet Archive