Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department
2007 (as Lane Center for Computational Biology)
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
http://www.cbd.cmu.edu/
The Ray and Stephanie Lane
Computational Biology
(CBD) is one of the seven departments within the
School of Computer Science
Carnegie Mellon University
Now situated in the Gates-Hillman Center, CBD was established in 2007
as the Lane Center for Computational Biology by founding department head
Robert F. Murphy
. The establishment was supported by funding from
Raymond J. Lane
and Stephanie Lane,
CBD officially became a department within the School of Computer Science in 2009.
In November 2023, Carnegie Mellon named the department as the Ray and
Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department, in recognition of the
Lanes' significant investment in computational biology at CMU.
CBD specializes in
systems biology
biological imaging
pioneering advanced computational methods, including AI and machine
learning. The accolades of its faculty (current and former) include
leadership roles such as president of the
National Science Foundation
and the International Society of Advanced Cytometry,
and as membership in the
National Institutes of Health
Council of Councils.
They have received numerous prestigious awards, including the
Guggenheim Fellowship
United States Air Force
Young Investigator Award,
Presidential Young Investigator Award
NSF CAREER Award
Sloan Fellowship
, and New Innovator's Award from the NIH, among others. Additionally, faculty members have been elected to the
National Academy of Sciences
American Association for the Advancement of Science
International Society of Computational Biology
As part of the HHMI-NIBIB Interfaces Initiative,
CBD received funding from
Howard Hughes Medical Institute
National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering
to develop an interdisciplinary Ph.D. program in
computational biology
University of Pittsburgh
, which was founded as the
Joint CMU-Pitt Ph.D. Program in Computational Biology
in 2005. This program is currently receiving training support through a
National Institutes of Health T32 Training Grant. CBD is the home of
the B.S. in Computational Biology,
one of the four B.S. degree programs within
Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science
. The Computational Biology undergraduate program has been consistently ranked as one of the top 3 programs by US News.
CBD is the home of an NIH Center for the
Integration, Visualization & Engaging (HIVE) Initiative
and an NIH Center for Multiscale Analysis of 4D Nucleome Structure and Function by Comprehensive Multimodal Data Integration
CBD houses the Center for AI-Driven Biomedical Research (AI4BIO)
at CMU, a catalyst for innovations at the intersection of AI and
biomedicine across the
School of Computer Science
Notable faculty
Robert F. Murphy
(founding department head)
Russell Schwartz (current department head)
Jaime Carbonell
Degree programs
Joint CMU-Pitt Ph.D. Program in Computational Biology (with
University of Pittsburgh
M.S. in Computational Biology (joint with the Department of Biological Sciences)
M.S. in Automated Science
B.S. in Computational Biology
Minor in Computational Biology
"Department History"
"Computational Biology Becomes Department In Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science"
Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science
Mellon Trustee Ray Lane and Stephanie Lane Invest $25 Million in CMU's
Computational Biology Department - News - Carnegie Mellon University"
"Subra Suresh Biography"
"Past Presidents - ISAC-NET"
. Archived from
"Murphy Appointed to NIH Council of Councils | Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science"
"2012 Overton Prize: Ziv Bar-Joseph"
Carnegie Mellon.
"Jian Ma Wins Guggenheim Fellowship - News - Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on 2020-05-22.
"Kathryn Roeder"
www.nasonline.org
"HHMI-NIBIB Interfaces Initiative"
. Archived from
"Institute News: HHMI Awards $10 Million for Interdisciplinary Graduate Education"
"NIBIB Invests in Interdisciplinary Graduate Research Training"
www.nibib.nih.gov
"B.S. in Computational Biology | Computational Biology Department"
Computational Biology Department | Carnegie Mellon University
"Best Undergraduate Bioinformatics/Biotechnology Programs"
from the original on 2021-08-25.
University, Carnegie Mellon.
"Carnegie Mellon Will Help Build 3D Cellular Map of Human Body - News - Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on 2018-10-01
University, Carnegie Mellon.
"Carnegie Mellon Heads New Center for Studying Structure of Cell Nucleus - News - Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on 2020-10-23
"CMU Launches Center for AI-Driven Biomedical Research - News - Carnegie Mellon University"
Carnegie Mellon University