University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, US
"CMU" redirects here. For other uses, see
CMU (disambiguation)
Carnegie Mellon University
Carnegie Technical Schools (1900–1912)
Carnegie Institute of Technology (1912–1967)
Mellon Institute of Industrial Research
"My heart is in the work" – Andrew Carnegie
research university
November 15, 1900
; 124 years ago
November 15, 1900
Andrew Carnegie
Richard B. Mellon
Academic affiliations
$4.0 billion (2024)
Farnam Jahanian
40.44250°N 79.94333°W
40.44250; -79.94333
, 157.2 acres (63.6 ha)
Santa Clara County, California
Washington, D.C.
Red, black, steel gray, and iron gray
Sporting affiliations
Scottish Terrier
Carnegie Mellon University
research university
, Pennsylvania, United States. The institution was established in 1900 by
Andrew Carnegie
Carnegie Technical Schools
. In 1912, it became the
Carnegie Institute of Technology
and began granting four-year degrees. In 1967, it became Carnegie Mellon University through its merger with the
Mellon Institute of Industrial Research
, founded in 1913 by
Richard B. Mellon
and formerly a part of the
University of Pittsburgh
The university consists of seven colleges, including the
College of Engineering
School of Computer Science
Tepper School of Business
The university has its main campus located 5 miles (8 km) from
downtown Pittsburgh
. It also has over a dozen degree-granting locations in six continents, including campuses in
Carnegie Mellon University Africa
) and partnerships with universities nationally and globally.
Carnegie Mellon enrolls 15,818 students across its multiple campuses
from 117 countries and employs more than 1,400 faculty members.
Carnegie Mellon is known for its advances in research and new
fields of study, home to many firsts in computer science (including the
machine learning
computational biology
departments), pioneering the field of
management science
in the United States. Carnegie Mellon is a member of the
Association of American Universities
among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity".
Carnegie Mellon competes in NCAA Division III athletics as a founding member of the
University Athletic Association
. Carnegie Mellon fields eight men's teams and nine women's teams as the Tartans.
The university's faculty and alumni include 21
laureates and 13
winners and have received 142
Andrew Carnegie
, founder of the Carnegie Technical Schools.
, co-founder of the Mellon Institute.
The Carnegie Technical Schools were founded in 1900 in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Scottish-American
industrialist and philanthropist
Andrew Carnegie
who wrote "My heart is in the work", when he donated the funds to
create the institution. Carnegie's vision was to open a vocational
training school for the sons and daughters of working-class
Pittsburghers, many of whom worked in his mills. Carnegie was inspired
for the design of his school by the
Pratt Institute
Brooklyn, New York
, founded by industrialist
In 1912, the institution changed its name to Carnegie Institute of
Technology (CIT) and began offering four-year degrees. During this time,
CIT consisted of four constituent schools: the School of Fine and
Applied Arts, the School of Apprentices and Journeymen, the School of
Science and Technology, and the
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School for Women
Mellon Institute of Industrial Research
was founded in 1913 by banker and industrialist brothers
(who went on to become
U.S. Treasury Secretary
Richard B. Mellon
in honor of their father,
, patriarch of the
The Institute began as a research organization that performed contract
work for government and industry, initially as a department within the
University of Pittsburgh
In 1927, the Mellon Institute was incorporated as an independent
nonprofit. In 1937, the Mellon Institute's iconic building was completed
on Fifth Avenue.
In 1967, with support from
the Carnegie Institute of Technology merged with the Mellon Institute
of Industrial Research to become Carnegie Mellon University. In 1973,
Carnegie Mellon's coordinate
women's college
, the Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, merged its academic programs with the rest of the university.
The industrial research mission of the Mellon Institute survived the
merger as the Carnegie Mellon Research Institute (CMRI) and continued
doing work on contract to industry and government. In 2001, CMRI's
programs were subsumed by other parts of the university or spun off into
autonomous entities.
The main campus in
as seen from the 36th floor of the
Cathedral of Learning
University of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Mellon's 157.2 acre (63 ha) main campus is five miles (8 km) from downtown
and the neighborhoods of
Carnegie Mellon is bordered to the west by the campus of the
University of Pittsburgh
. Carnegie Mellon owns 81 buildings in the
neighborhoods of Pittsburgh.
For decades, the center of student life on campus was Skibo Hall,
the university's student union. Built in the 1950s, Skibo Hall's design
mid-century modern
architecture but was poorly equipped to deal with advances in computer
and internet connectivity. The original Skibo Hall was razed in the
summer of 1994 and replaced by a new student union that is fully Wi-Fi
enabled. Known as the University Center, the building was dedicated in
1996. In 2014, Carnegie Mellon re-dedicated the University Center as the
Cohon University Center in recognition of the eighth president of the
A large grassy area known as "The Cut" forms the backbone of the
campus, with a separate grassy area known as "The Mall" running
perpendicular. The Cut was formed by filling in a ravine (hence the
name) with soil from a nearby hill that was leveled to build the College
of Fine Arts building.
The northwestern part of the campus (home to Hamburg Hall,
Newell-Simon Hall, Smith Hall, and Gates Hillman Complex) was acquired
United States Bureau of Mines
Carnegie Mellon has been purchasing 100% renewable energy for its electricity since 2011.
additional citation(s) needed
A panoramic view of Carnegie Mellon University's Pittsburgh campus from the College of Fine Arts Lawn.
From left to right: College of Fine Arts, Hunt Library, Baker and Porter Hall, Hamerschlag Hall,
University of Pittsburgh
Cathedral of Learning (in the background), Wean Hall and Doherty Hall,
Purnell Center, and the Cohon University Center. Also visible are "The
Fence", and the
Walking to the Sky
Campus architecture and design
The campus began to take shape in the
Beaux-Arts architecture
George Carnegie Palmer
Henry Hornbostel
of Palmer & Hornbostel, winners of the 1904 competition to design the original institution and later the founder of the
Carnegie Mellon School of Architecture
There was little change to the campus between the
second World War
. A 1938 master plan by Githens and
suggested acquisition of new land along
but the plan was not fully implemented. The period starting with the
construction of the Hall of the Arts building (former home of the
Graduate School of Industrial Administration) in 1952 and ending with
Wean Hall in 1971 saw the institutional change from Carnegie Institute
of Technology to Carnegie Mellon University. New facilities were needed
to respond to the university's growing national reputation in
artificial intelligence
business, robotics and the arts. In addition, an expanding student
population demanded improved facilities for student life, athletics and
libraries. The campus finally expanded to Forbes Avenue from its
original land along
Hamerschlag, Roberts, and Scott Halls are three of the teaching facilities of the
College of Engineering
The buildings of this era reflected contemporary architectural styles. The
International Style
with its rejection of historical tradition and its emphases on
functionalism and expression of structure, had been in vogue in European
settings since the 1930s. It came late to the Carnegie Mellon campus
because of the hiatus in building activity and a general reluctance
among American universities to abandon historical styles. By the 1960s,
the International Style was adopted to accomplish needed expansion
quickly and affordably with the swelling of student ranks in the
aftermath of the
in 1944. Each building was a unique architectural statement that may
have acknowledged the existing campus in its placement, but not in its
form or materials.
During the 1970s and 1980s, the tenure of president
(1972–1990) witnessed a period of growth and development. The research
budget grew from roughly $12 million annually in the early 1970s to more
than $110 million in the late 1980s. Researchers in new fields like
software engineering
helped the university to build its reputation. One example was the introduction of the "
computing network in the mid-1980s. This project linking all computers
and workstations on campus set the standard for educational computing
and established Carnegie Mellon as a technology leader in education and
research. On April 24, 1985,
, Carnegie Mellon's Internet domain, became one of the
Since the 1990s
Wean Hall, home of the world's first internet-enabled soda vending machine.
In the 1990s and into the 2000s, Carnegie Mellon solidified its
status among American universities, consistently ranking in the top 25
in the national
U.S. News & World Report
rankings, and in the top 30 (ranking 28th in 2022) amongst universities worldwide.
Carnegie Mellon is distinct in its interdisciplinary approach to
research and education. Through the establishment of programs and
centers outside the limitations of departments or colleges, the
university has established leadership in fields such as
computational finance
information systems
cognitive sciences
, management, arts management, product design,
behavioral economics
, energy science and economics,
human–computer interaction
entertainment technology
decision science
Within the past two decades, the university has built a new university
center (Cohon University Center), theater and drama building (Purnell
Center for the Arts), business school building (
Tepper School of Business
and several dormitories. Baker Hall was renovated in the early 2000s,
and new chemistry labs were established in Doherty Hall soon after.
Several computer science buildings, such as
Newell-Simon Hall
, also were established, renovated or renamed in the early 2000s.
In 2006, Carnegie Mellon Trustee Jill Gansman Kraus donated the 80-foot (24 m)-tall sculpture
Walking to the Sky
which was placed on the lawn facing Forbes Avenue between the Cohon
University Center and Warner Hall. The sculpture was controversial for
its placement, the general lack of input from the campus community, and
its (lack of) aesthetic appeal.
The Gates Hillman Complex, which houses the
School of Computer Science
Cohon University Center, which contains an indoor swimming pool, bookstore, student club facilities, gym, and cafeteria.
The Gates Hillman Complex opened for occupancy on August 7, 2009.
It sits on a 5.6-acre (2.3 ha) site on the university's West
Campus, surrounded by Cyert Hall, the Purnell Center for the Arts,
Doherty Hall, Newell-Simon Hall, Smith Hall,
, and the Robert Mehrabian Collaborative Innovation Center. It contains 318 offices as well as labs,
computer clusters
lecture halls, classrooms and a 255-seat auditorium. The Gates Hillman
Complex was made possible by a $20 million lead gift from the
Gates Foundation
and an additional $10 million grant from the
Henry L. Hillman Foundation
. The Gates Hillman Complex and the Purnell Center for the Arts are connected by the
Memorial Footbridge.
On April 15, 1997,
, former dean of the
Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies
was elected president by Carnegie Mellon's board of trustees. During
Cohon's presidency, Carnegie Mellon continued its trajectory of
innovation and growth. His strategic plan aimed to leverage the
university's strengths to benefit society in the areas of
, information and security technology,
environmental science
and practices, the
, and business and
. In 2006, following negotiations between President Cohon and South Australian Premier
, CMU opened a campus of the
in the historic
Torrens Building
Australia. President Cohon's term ended on June 30, 2013, after which
he returned to the faculty at Carnegie Mellon.On July 1, 2003, Carnegie
Mellon launched "Insp!re Innovation", a $1 billion comprehensive
fundraising campaign. Half of the campaign goal is intended for the
endowment to provide long-lasting support for faculty, students and
breakthrough innovations. The campaign brought in a total of $1.19
billion, with $578.5 million going toward Carnegie Mellon's endowment.
It also enabled the university to establish 31 endowed professorships,
97 endowed fellowships and 250 endowed scholarships.
On September 7, 2011,
William S. Dietrich II
, the former chairman of Dietrich Industries, Inc., a subsidiary of
Worthington Industries
Inc., pledged a gift of $265 million, effective on October 6, 2011,
upon his death. In response to this gift, Carnegie Mellon renamed the
College of Humanities and Social Sciences as the
Marianna Brown Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
after William Dietrich's mother.
On April 23, 2012, New York's Mayor
Michael R. Bloomberg
New York University
announced an agreement between New York City, New York's MTA, and a
consortium of academic institutions, and private technology companies
that led to the creation in New York of a
Center for Urban Science and Progress
(CUSP). The Center for Urban Science and Progress (CUSP) is an applied
science research institute composed of a partnership of institutions
from around the globe, led by
New York University
with a consortium of universities including Carnegie Mellon, the
University of Warwick
City University of New York
Indian Institute of Technology Bombay
University of Toronto
Carnegie Mellon
's campus in Kigali, Rwanda.
September 2012, Carnegie Mellon announced the construction of the
Sherman and Joyce Bowie Scott Hall on the Pittsburgh campus. The new
building is situated between Hamerschlag Hall, Roberts Hall, and Wean
Hall and houses the university-wide Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy
Innovation, the Bertucci Nanotechnology Lab, the Engineering Research
Accelerator (formerly known as the Institute for Complex Engineered
Systems), the Disruptive Health Technologies Institute, and the
Department of Biomedical Engineering.
Further, in November 2013, Carnegie Mellon announced a $67 million gift from
who previously donated $56 million, to develop the Tepper Quadrangle on
the north campus. The Tepper Quad includes a new Tepper School of
Business facility across
from a renovated and expanded Hamburg Hall (home to Heinz College)
as well as other university-wide buildings and a welcome center which serves as a public gateway to the university.
In April 2015, Carnegie Mellon, in collaboration with
Jones Lang LaSalle
announced the planning of a second office space structure, alongside
the Robert Mehrabian Collaborative Innovation Center, an upscale and
full-service hotel, and retail and dining development along Forbes
Avenue. This complex will connect to the Tepper Quadrangle, the Heinz
College, the Tata Consultancy Services Building, and the Gates-Hillman
Center to create an innovation corridor on the university campus. The
effort is intended to continue to attract major corporate partnerships
to create opportunities for research, teaching, and employment with
students and faculty.
On October 30, 2019, Carnegie Mellon publicly announced the launch of
"Make Possible: The Campaign for Carnegie Mellon University", a
campaign which seeks to raise $2 billion to advance the university's
priorities, including campus development.
Alongside the Tepper Quad and Hamburg Hall, Carnegie Mellon finished
construction in 2020 on TCS Hall, an innovation center made possible
with a $35 million gift from
Tata Consultancy Services
Carnegie Mellon plans to collaborate with
Emerald Cloud Lab
to construct the world's first cloud lab in a university setting. The
Carnegie Mellon University Cloud Lab is planned to be completed by the
spring of 2023. Carnegie Mellon also plans to construct a new mechanical
engineering building by fall 2023 (Scaife Hall), a new $105 million
athletics center by fall 2024 (Highmark Center for Health, Wellness and
Athletics), a $210 million Science Futures Building (R.K. Mellon Hall of
Sciences) by 2026,
as well as a Robotics Innovation Center at Hazelwood Green, in addition
to new dormitories and other buildings in the coming years.
On February 5, 2013, Carnegie Mellon announced the selection of
, Director of the
National Science Foundation
and Dean of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology School of Engineering
, as its ninth president effective July 1, 2013.
Suresh stepped down in June 2017
and was replaced by
Farnam Jahanian
, the university's interim-president and former provost, in March 2018.
On September 8, 2022, Carnegie Mellon announced a $275.7 million partnership with the
Mastercard Foundation
Carnegie Mellon University Africa
. Carnegie Mellon's Kigali campus provides graduate-level study in engineering and artificial intelligence.
On November 6, 2023, Carnegie Mellon Trustee Ray Lane and his
wife Stephanie Lane invested $25 million in support of the university's
Computational Biology department.
On April 12, 2024, Carnegie Mellon broke ground for construction
of its new Richard King Mellon Hall of Sciences, a 338,900 square-foot
addition to its campus.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall, home of the
Carnegie Mellon School of Architecture
Carnegie Mellon School of Design
College of Engineering
includes seven engineering departments (
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Environmental Engineering
Computer Engineering
Engineering and Public Policy
Mechanical Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering
), two interdisciplinary institutes (the
Information Networking Institute
Integrated Innovation Institute
), and the Engineering Research Accelerator.
College of Fine Arts
is one of the oldest colleges of fine arts in the United States, and today it is a federation of five distinct schools:
The School of Architecture
The School of Music
The School of Design
The School of Drama
The School of Art
The college shares research projects, interdisciplinary centers and
educational programs with other units across the university.
The College of Fine Arts runs master's programs in Arts Management and
Entertainment Industry Management with the Heinz College, as well as
interdisciplinary undergraduate programs with the
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Mellon College of Science
School of Computer Science
(BCSA), and the
College of Engineering
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
is the university's liberal arts college and emphasizes the study of
the human condition through rigorous analysis and technology.
Departments include
Modern Languages
Social and Decision Sciences
as well as an Institute for Politics and Strategy. The college also offers undergraduate degree programs in
Information Systems
, Economics (jointly with the Tepper School of Business), and the Bachelor of Humanities and Arts (BHA) with the
College of Fine Arts
H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
offers top-ranked master's degrees in
and Management, Health Care Policy and Management, Medical Management,
Public Management
Information Systems
and Management, Information Technology, and Information Security Policy
and Management. The Heinz College also runs master's programs in Arts
Management and Entertainment Industry Management with the College of
Fine Arts. Heinz College consists of the School of Information Systems
& Management and the School of Public Policy & Management. It
also offers several PhD and executive education programs.
Mellon College of Science
has four departments:
Biological Sciences
Mathematical Sciences
. The college is expanding efforts in
green chemistry
computational biology
computational finance
cosmology, sensor research, and biological physics. It also offers an
undergraduate Bachelor of Science and Arts (BSA) degree in conjunction
College of Fine Arts
Inside the Gates-Hillman Complex of the School of Computer Science.
School of Computer Science
: Carnegie Mellon helped define, and continually redefines, the field of
computer science
. The School of Computer Science is recognized internationally as one of the top schools for computer science
and has been consistently ranked the best in the country. The School of
Computer Science includes seven departments: the Computer Science
Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department
Robotics Institute
, Machine Learning Department, the
Human–Computer Interaction Institute
Language Technologies Institute
and the  Software and Societal Systems Department (S3D). It
additionally offers the undergraduate Bachelor of Computer Science and
Arts (BCSA) degree in conjunction with the
College of Fine Arts
Tepper School of Business
(formerly the Graduate School of Industrial Administration) offers undergraduate programs in
Business Administration
(the latter jointly with the Dietrich College), master's degrees in Business Administration (
), Product Management (MSPM) and joint degrees in
Computational Finance
(MSCF) with the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences, the
Mellon College of Science, the Heinz College, and the School of
Computer Science. In addition, joint degrees are offered with Civil and
Environmental Engineering and the Heinz College. The Tepper School also
offers doctoral degrees in several areas and presents a number of
executive education
programs. Following a $67 million donation from alumnus
David A. Tepper
in 2013, the university expanded the undergraduate business program and
named the school after him. In summer of 2015, a new curriculum was
formally instated.
Carnegie Mellon's
Entertainment Technology Center
Carnegie Mellon also runs the Integrative Design, Arts, and
Technology (IDeATe) Network to provide university-wide arts and
technology education to students from every college. IDeATe allows
students to take minors or concentrations in Animation and Special
Effects, Entrepreneurship for Creative Industries, Game Design,
Intelligent Environments, Learning Media, Media Design, Physical
Computing, and Sound Design. IDeAte will also offer graduate master's
degrees in Emerging Media, Game Design, Integrative Innovation for
Products and Services, Computational Data Science, Urban Design, and
Production Technology and Management. IDeATe also manages the
Entertainment Technology Center
(ETC) in conjunction with the School of Computer Science and the
College of Fine Arts. Each master's degree program has an option to
study in the CMU Integrative Media Program (IMP) at
Steiner Studios
. IDeATe Network will be based on the Pittsburgh campus upon the development of recently acquired property on
Junction Hollow
In addition to research and academic institutions, the university hosts several other educationally driven programs. The
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences
a state-funded summer program that aims to foster interest in science
amongst gifted high school students is run on campus every summer. The
university also runs Carnegie Mellon
a six-week residential program for rising juniors and seniors in high
school and the Summer Academy for Math and Science (SAMS), a
free-of-charge STEM immersion program for students from underrepresented
backgrounds. The Cyert Center for Early Education is a child care
center for Carnegie Mellon faculty and staff, as well as an
observational setting for students in child development courses.
Carnegie Mellon also developed the Open Learning Initiative which
provides free courses online in a variety of fields to students
Academic rankings
U.S. News & World Report
Washington Monthly
U.S. News & World Report
U.S. News & World Report
Graduate Rankings
Biological Sciences
Business-Business Analytics
Business-Information Systems
Business-Production/Operations
Business-Project Management
Business-Supply Chain/Logistics
Computer Science
Computer Science-Artificial Intelligence
Computer Science-Programming Language
Computer Science-Systems
Computer Science-Theory
Engineering-Computer
Engineering-Civil
Engineering-Electrical/Electronic/Communications
Engineering-Environmental/Environmental Health
Engineering-Mechanical
Engineering-Materials
Fine Arts-Time-Based/New Media
Mathematics-Discrete Mathematics and Combinatorics
Mathematics-Applied Math
Public Affairs-Information Technology and Management
Public Affairs-Environmental Policy and Management
Public Affairs-Public Policy Analysis
Public Affairs-Urban Policy
Psychology-Cognitive
U.S. News & World Report
placed Carnegie Mellon in a tie with
Washington University in St. Louis
University of Michigan
for 21st place among American research universities in their 2024-2025 rankings.
Many of its graduate programs have been ranked in national and international surveys. In 2022,
ranked Carnegie Mellon as having 23 graduate programs in the Top 10 nationwide and 16 in the Top 5 nationwide.,
including three programs ranked first: Artificial Intelligence,
Programming Languages, and Information and Technology Management. In
particular, the
CMU School of Computer Science
has been consistently ranked the best in the nation, tied with
Globally, Carnegie Mellon is ranked 28th by
Times Higher Education
QS World University Rankings
Carnegie Mellon was named one of the "New
The Wall Street Journal
ranked Carnegie Mellon 1st in computer science, 4th in finance, 10th
overall, and 21st in engineering according to job recruiters.
Carnegie Mellon ranks thirteenth among "Best Colleges By Salary Potential (Bachelor's Only)" in the United States according to
In 2024, Carnegie Mellon's
Tepper School of Business
placed 9th in an
of U.S. business schools by
Bloomberg Businessweek
The Hollywood Reporter
ranked the School of Drama 3rd in the world among undergraduate drama schools.
In 2015, the same publication ranked the MFA program at the School of Drama 5th in the world.
Carnegie Mellon's
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
was ranked 55th for social sciences and 60th for humanities in the world by
Times Higher Education
Dietrich College is also ranked 20th for social sciences among Shanghai Jiao Tong University's world's top 100 universities.
Carnegie Mellon is one of 66 elected members of the
Association of American Universities
and one of 29 members (one of 13 American members) of the
World Economic Forum
Global University Leaders Forum
U.S. News & World Report
rates admission to Carnegie Mellon as "most selective".
For the class of 2026 (enrolling in fall 2022), Carnegie Mellon
received 34,261 applications and admitted approximately 3,873 (11%),
with 1,736 enrolling.
The acceptance rates of the individual colleges and programs range from
Carnegie Mellon School of Architecture
Carnegie Mellon School of Drama
The largest college, in terms of the class of 2025 enrollment, is the
College of Engineering with 499 students, followed by the Dietrich
College of Humanities and Social Sciences with 391, and the Mellon
College of Science with 266.
The smallest college is the School of Design, with 34.
The middle 50% range of
scores of enrolled freshmen was 720-770 for reading and writing, and 770-800 for math, while the middle 50% range of the
composite score was 34–35.
The university is
for domestic applicants.
The class of 2026 enrolled students from 46 U.S. states and 42 countries.
Undergraduate tuition for 2023-2024 is $62,260, and room and board is $17,468.
Posner Hall, former home of the
Tepper School of Business
among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very High Research Activity".
For the 2021 fiscal year, the university spent $402 million on
research. The primary recipients of this funding were the School of
Computer Science ($100.3 million), the
Software Engineering Institute
($71.7 million), the College of Engineering ($48.5 million), and the
Mellon College of Science ($47.7 million). The research money comes
largely from federal sources, with a federal investment of $234.9
million in 2021. The federal agencies that invest the most money include
National Science Foundation
Department of Defense
, which contributed $70.5 million and $90.4 million in 2021, respectively.
The recognition of Carnegie Mellon as one of the best research
facilities in the nation has a long history. As early as the 1987
federal budget, CMU was ranked as third in the amount of federal
research funds received with $41.5 million, with only MIT and Johns
Hopkins receiving more research funds from the Department of Defense.
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
(PSC) is a joint effort between Carnegie Mellon,
University of Pittsburgh
Westinghouse Electric Company
PSC was founded in 1986 by its two scientific directors, Ralph Roskies
of the University of Pittsburgh and Michael Levine of Carnegie Mellon.
PSC is a leading partner in the
, the National Science Foundation's cyberinfrastructure program.
Scarab lunar rover
is being developed by the RI.
The Neuroscience Institute (NI) is a university-wide research institute that was founded in 2018
as a successor to an earlier effort, known as Brainhub.
Combining research in
computer science
machine learning
cognitive science
NI aims to promote research that will improve the human condition.
Devices developed by the institute have been designed to enable
communication for locked-in patients,
Parkinson's disease
technology using
artificial intelligence
that work with coarse, curly hair.
NI  includes over 30 faculty and 100 trainees from four colleges and oversees two
programs (the Program in Neural Computation and the Program in Systems Neuroscience) that have received support from the
National Institutes of Health
Numerous philanthropic gifts help support NI research.
NI also provides direct administrative and monetary support for the
Center for Neural Basis of Cognition, a long-running collaboration with
University of Pittsburgh
Robotics Institute
(RI) is a division of the School of Computer Science and considered to
be one of the leading centers of robotics research in the world. The
Field Robotics Center (FRC) has developed a number of significant
robots, including
, which finished second and third in the
DARPA Grand Challenge
, and Boss, which won the
DARPA Urban Challenge
. The Robotics Institute has partnered with a spinoff company,
Astrobotic Technology Inc.
to land a CMU robot on the moon by 2016 in pursuit of the Google Lunar
XPrize. The robot, known as Andy, is designed to explore lunar pits,
which might include entrances to caves.
The RI is primarily sited at Carnegie Mellon's main campus in Newell-Simon hall.
Software Engineering Institute
building on Fifth Avenue.
Software Engineering Institute
federally funded research and development center
sponsored by the U.S. Department of Defense and operated by Carnegie
Mellon, with offices in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA and Arlington,
Virginia. The SEI publishes books on
software engineering
for industry, government and military applications and practices. The organization is known for its
Capability Maturity Model
Capability Maturity Model Integration
(CMMI), which identify essential elements of effective system and
software engineering processes and can be used to rate the level of an
organization's capability for producing quality systems. The SEI is also
the federally funded computer security organization. The CERT Program's
primary goals are to support secure requirements and development of
computer systems and ensure that appropriate technology and systems
management practices are used to resist attacks on networked systems and
to limit damage and ensure continuity of critical services subsequent
to attacks, accidents, or failures.
Human–Computer Interaction Institute
(HCII) is a division of the School of Computer Science and is considered one of the leading centers of
human–computer interaction
research, integrating computer science, design, social science, and learning science.
Such interdisciplinary collaboration is the hallmark of research done throughout the university.
Language Technologies Institute
(LTI) is another unit of the School of Computer Science and is famous
for being one of the leading research centers in the area of
language technologies
. The primary research focus of the institute is on
machine translation
speech recognition
speech synthesis
information retrieval
information extraction
Until 1996, the institute existed as the Center for Machine Translation
that was established in 1986. From 1996 onwards, it started awarding
graduate degrees and the name was changed to Language Technologies
Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department
, one of the seven departments in the
School of Computer Science
was established in 2007 (as Lane Center for Computational Biology),
officially became a department within the School of Computer Science in
2009, and named the Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology
Department in 2023. The department is the leader in developing
computational methodologies to advance biomedical research.
Carnegie Mellon is also home to the
Carnegie School
of management and economics. This intellectual school grew out of the
Tepper School of Business
in the 1950s and 1960s and focused on the intersection of
behavioralistm and management. Several management theories, most notably
bounded rationality
and the behavioral
theory of the firm
, were established by Carnegie School management scientists and economists.
Carnegie Mellon also develops cross-disciplinary and
university-wide institutes and initiatives to take advantage of
strengths in various colleges and departments and develop solutions in
critical social and technical problems. To date, these have included the
Cylab Security and Privacy Institute
, the Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy Innovation, the
Neuroscience Institute
, the Simon Initiative, and the Disruptive Healthcare Technology Institute.
Carnegie Mellon has made a concerted effort to attract corporate
research labs, offices, and partnerships to the Pittsburgh campus.
Bombardier Inc.
Tata Consultancy Services
Robert Bosch GmbH
Rand Corporation
have established a presence on or near campus. In collaboration with Intel, Carnegie Mellon has pioneered research into
International activities
Part of Carnegie Mellon's Education City campus in Qatar.
In addition to its Pittsburgh campus, Carnegie Mellon has a branch campus in the Middle East,
Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar
which offers a full undergraduate curriculum with degree programs in
computer science, business administration, biology, computational
biology, and information systems. The campus is located in
which is home to multiple other U.S. universities all of which are funded by the
Qatar Foundation
campus has been the subject of controversy, as Islamic cultural values
and laws in Qatar differ greatly from the core values of Carnegie
Additionally, Carnegie Mellon and other U.S. universities in Education
City have been criticized for being essentially complicit in Qatar's
corruption, connections with
and their questionable
record by continuing to operate there.
It also has graduate-level extension campuses in
Mountain View, California
in the heart of
(offering masters programs in
Software Engineering
and Software Management). The
Tepper School of Business
maintains a satellite center in downtown
and the Heinz College maintains one in
, Australia. The
, the Institute for Politics and Strategy, and the Department of
Engineering and Public Policy
host centers in
Washington, D.C.
as part of degree programs, research, and government affairs initiatives as well as being a part of the
University of California, Washington Center
. Carnegie Mellon also established the Integrative Media Program at
Steiner Studios
, New York. Carnegie Mellon also maintains the Carnegie Mellon Los Angeles Center in
North Hollywood, California
where students in the Master of Entertainment Industry Management
program are required to relocate to Los Angeles in their second year and
attend classes at this facility.
Carnegie Mellon's
Information Networking Institute
offers graduate programs in
, in collaboration with
Athens Information Technology
and the Hyogo Institute of Information Education Foundation, respectively. In the fall of 2007, the cities of
, Portugal were added to the
Information Networking Institute
's remote locations. The  Software and Societal Systems Department (S3D) offers graduate programs in
, Portugal. The Entertainment Technology Center offers graduate programs in Portugal, Japan, and Singapore. The
Human–Computer Interaction Institute
offers a master's degree in conjunction with the
University of Madeira
, in Portugal at the jointly founded
Madeira Interactive Technologies Institute
. The College of Engineering has an international location in
offering the Master of Science in Information Technology and the Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering.
Hunt Library is the largest library on Carnegie Mellon's Pittsburgh campus.
The Libraries of Carnegie Mellon include Hunt Library, the Roger Sorrells Engineering & Science Library, the
Mellon Institute
Library, the Posner Center, and the Qatar Library. Additionally, the Libraries'
Million Book Project
(2001–2008) sparked development of the
Universal Digital Library
. The university libraries host a number of full text special collections for public access, including the
Andrew Carnegie
Herbert A. Simon
Collection, the
H. John Heinz III
Collection, the Pittsburgh Jewish Newspapers Project, and the Posner
Memorial Collection. Carnegie Mellon students and faculty have access to
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
University of Pittsburgh
libraries through consortial agreements with those institutions. The
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation
dedicated as the Rachel McMasters Miller Hunt Botanical Library in
1961, has been a research division of CMU since its founding. The HIBD
is an international bibliographical research and service in the fields
of botany, horticulture, and the history of the plant sciences and has a
significant research library and art holdings on the 5th floor of Hunt
Library. The university's
Software Engineering Institute
also houses a research library.
Carnegie Mellon also manages the
Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps
in Pittsburgh on which students throughout Pittsburgh's universities rely. Carnegie Mellon partners with the
University of Pittsburgh
to provide opportunities in
Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps
Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
to its students.
Carnegie Mellon is accredited by the
Middle States Commission on Higher Education
Collaboration with the University of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Mellon neighbors the campus of the
University of Pittsburgh
and in some cases, buildings of the two universities are intermingled.
This helps to facilitate myriad academic and research collaborations
between the two schools,
including such projects as the
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
, the Immune Modeling Center, the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, the
University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute
, as well as the National Science Foundation-supported Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center.
Further, the universities also offer multiple dual and joint degree programs such as the
Medical Scientist Training Program
, the Molecular Biophysics and Structural Biology Graduate Program, the
Joint CMU-Pitt Ph.D. Program in Computational Biology
Center for Neural Basis of Cognition
and the Law and Business Administration program. Some professors hold
joint professorships between the two schools, and students at each
university may take classes at the other (with appropriate approvals).
CMU students and faculty also have access to the University of Pittsburgh library system, as well as the
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
. The two universities also co-host academic conferences, such as the 2012 Second Language Research Forum.
In 2015, in conjunction with the University of Pittsburgh and
, Carnegie Mellon became a partner of the Pittsburgh Health Data Alliance to leverage data analysis in health care.
Discoveries and innovation
Simplified evolution of
was a fork from
4.3 that led to
Natural sciences
Electron diffraction
Clinton Davisson
won the 1937 Nobel Prize in Physics for his discovery of electron diffraction in the famous
Davisson–Germer experiment
, which confirmed the
de Broglie hypothesis
that particles of matter have a wave-like nature, which is a central tenet of
quantum mechanics
. In particular, their observation of diffraction allowed the first measurement of a
Stephanie Kwolek
in 1965, the high-strength material was first used commercially in the
early 1970s as a replacement for steel in racing tires. Kevlar has many
applications, ranging from bicycle tires and racing sails to bulletproof
vests, all due to its high tensile strength-to-weight ratio; by this
measure, it is five times stronger than steel.
won the 2005 Nobel Prize in Physics with
Theodor W. Hänsch
for his pioneering work on laser-based precision spectroscopy and the optical
Neutron scattering
Clifford G. Shull
was awarded the 1994 Nobel Prize in Physics with Canadian
Bertram Brockhouse
for their pioneering work in neutron scattering, a technique that
reveals where atoms are within a material like ricocheting bullets
reveal where obstacles are in the dark.
Computer and applied sciences
Alice (software)
(for non-commercial purposes)
educational programming language
integrated development environment
distributed computing
environment developed at Carnegie Mellon beginning in 1982. It was an
ambitious project for its time and resulted in an unprecedentedly vast
and accessible university computing infrastructure. The goal was to have
Artificial intelligence
– Several of the first AI software programs were created at Carnegie Mellon. These include the
General Problem Solver
Autonomous vehicle
program was developed by Carnegie Mellon. Since then,
autonomous vehicles were developed at Carnegie Mellon and placed 3rd and 2nd in the
DARPA Grand Challenge
and Carnegie Mellon's Boss won the
DARPA Grand Challenge (2007)
The university continues to be a leader in autonomous research and development.
Dynamic random-access memory
Robert H. Dennard
invented the one-transistor memory cell consisting of a transistor and a
capacitor for which a patent was issued in 1968. It became the basis
for today's dynamic random-access memory (DRAM).
Harvey C. Nathanson
invented the first MEMS (micro-electro-mechanical systems) device of
the type now found in products ranging from iPhones to automobiles.
Typical MEMS devices include the accelerometers found in smartphones and
video game controllers, and the gyroscopes used in automobiles and
– Founded in 1969 by
and Jack Goldman, Xerox PARC has been at the heart of numerous
revolutionary computer developments as laser printing, Ethernet, the
modern personal computer, graphical user interface (GUI) and desktop
paradigm, object-oriented programming, ubiquitous computing, electronic
paper, amorphous silicon (a-Si) applications, the computer mouse, and
advancing very-large-scale integration (VLSI) for semiconductors.
system programming language
developed at Carnegie Mellon by
A. N. Habermann
around 1970. It was perhaps the best known systems programming language until
made its debut in 1972.
– The first true emoticon was developed at Carnegie Mellon by
– In a 2007 tweet,
proposed vertical/associational grouping of messages, trends, and events on
by the means of hashtags.
object oriented
programming language that was originally developed by
Sun Microsystems
(which has since been acquired by
) and released in 1995 as a core component of Sun Microsystems' Java platform.
developed Mach at Carnegie Mellon from 1985 to 1994, ending with Mach 3.0, which is a true
. Mach was developed as a replacement for the kernel in the
so no new operating system would have to be designed around it.
Experimental research on Mach appears to have ended, although Mach and
its derivatives exist within a number of commercial operating systems.
network – Alex Hills created the first wi-fi network using a
local area network
(LAN) on the Carnegie Mellon campus in 1993.
Companies and entrepreneurship
The Swartz Center for Entrepreneurship
acts as Carnegie Mellon's
startup accelerator
. Jim Swartz, co-founder of
pledged $31 Million to establish a hub for university wide
entrepreneurial activities. His gift is the fifth largest Carnegie
Mellon has received. In 2016, the center opened providing a
business incubator
The center employs
Entrepreneurs-in-Residence
who mentor founders of early stage companies consisting of students, faculty, and alumni.
Startups work on their ideas throughout the year culminating at an
annual Demo Day where they showcase their company to the public.
Carnegie Mellon's alumni, faculty, and staff have founded many notable companies, some of which are shown below.
Activision Blizzard
), founding CEO
, 1982, co-founder
Charles Geschke
Sun Microsystems
, 1982, co-founders
Andy Bechtolsheim
, 1983, co-founder Jim Swartz (M.S.).
, 1985, co-founding VP Engineering
, 1989, co-founders
Jeffrey Eppinger
(B.S., M.S., Ph.D.),
(Ph.D.), Dean Thompson (B.S.).
1990, co-founders Francois Bitz (B.S., M.S.), Onat Menzilcioglu (M.S.,
Ph.D.), Robert Sansum (Ph.D.) and Eric C. Cooper (Professor).
Microsoft Research
, 1991, founder
, 1991, founder
David M. Kelley
Appaloosa Management
, 1993, founder
, 1993, co-founder
, 1994, co-founder
Francisco D'Souza
Juniper Networks
, 1996, founder
Symphony Technology Group
, 2002, founder
Romesh Wadhwani
Astrobotic Technology
, 2007, founder
(M.S., Ph.D., Professor).
, 2010, co-founders
Sebastian Thrun
(Professor), and
, 2010, co-founder Matt Rogers (B.S., M.S.).
, 2011, founders
(Ph.D., Professor) &
, 2012, founder
Defense Innovation Unit
, 2015, founder
Maynard Holliday
, 2016, co-founder Peter Rander (M.S., Ph.D.).
, 2016, co-founder Dave Ferguson (M.S., Ph.D.).
Aurora Innovation
, 2017, co-founder
Student body composition as of May 2, 2022
Race and ethnicity
Foreign national
Economic diversity
Carnegie Mellon's student life includes over 400 student
organizations, art galleries, and various unique traditions. Student
organizations provide social, service, media, academic, spiritual,
recreational, sport, religious, political, cultural, and governance
opportunities. Carnegie Mellon's campus houses several galleries such as
, a student-devoted gallery, and the
Regina Gouger Miller Gallery
, an art gallery that specializes in contemporary professional artists. The
Carnegie Mellon School of Music
Carnegie Mellon School of Drama
, and the student-run theatrical organization
provides campus with a variety of performance arts events. The
university has a strong Scottish motif inspired by Andrew Carnegie's
Scottish heritage, as well as the Mellon family's Scots-Irish ancestry.
Examples include Scotty, the
Scottish Terrier
student newspaper,
yearbook, and the
weekend every fall semester for homecoming.
Carnegie Mellon offers conventional housing for its students through
single-gender, coresidential, and special interest options. Students can
choose from a variety of housing options. The four options for students
are traditional, semi-suite, suite, and apartments. The Traditional is a
typical college dormitory setting, a long hallway with a series of 1-3
person rooms and a community bathroom shared with an entire floor or
wing. Semi-Suite offers more privacy through 1-4 person rooms with 3-5
residents sharing one semi-private bathroom. Suite is similar to
Semi-Suite but contains additional bedrooms, a bathroom, and living
room/lounge area shared with 3-8 other residents. Apartments are shared
between 1-3 people and may contain additional bedrooms, a semi-private
bathroom, a living room, and kitchen shared with the other residents.
Upperclassmen have additional options for housing, which include town
houses and a larger variety of one or two bedroom apartments.
There are 27 residential buildings on campus and even more off campus.
First-year students are assigned to the dedicated first-year
residence halls on campus including Morewood E-Tower, Morewood Gardens,
Residence on Fifth, Shirley Apartments, as well as Boss, Donner,
Hamerschlag, McGill, Mudge, Scobell, and Stever Houses. Approximately
one-third of upperclassmen choose to continue living on campus through
university housing. Options for upperclassmen include Fifth & Clyde,
Morewood Gardens, West Wing, Doherty, Fairfax, Margaret Morrison, Fifth
Neville, Shady Oak, Shirley, Forbes & Beeler, and Woodlawn
Apartments as well as Henderson, Resnik, Roselawn, Spirit, Tech,
Webster, and Welch Houses.
Fraternities and sororities
Fraternities and sororities at Carnegie Mellon University
The Greek tradition at Carnegie Mellon began over 100 years ago with the founding of the first fraternity on campus,
Specialized communities
In 2022, Welch House began to host the specialized Queer community, a living community suited to the needs of
students by allowing students to "live in the same room with any other
student inclusive of sex assigned at birth, gender identity, gender
expression, and/or sexual orientation".
Welch House consists of semi-suite singles and doubles. In addition,
Stever House hosts an all-gender floor for students who would prefer a
traditional double.
Spirit House is a residential community for upperclassmen
designated for members of the SPIRIT student organization, a Black
Student Union that serves as a haven for Black students within the
Carnegie Mellon community and champions issues facing the Black
Carnegie Mellon University traditions
In the early days of Carnegie Tech, there was a single bridge
connecting Margaret Morrison Women's College with the Carnegie Institute
of Technology. The bridge was a meeting place for students. In 1916,
the bridge was taken down and the university filled in the area. The
administration built a wooden fence as a new meeting place. The students
did not understand why anyone would want to meet at a fence. The
administration was about to give up and tear it down, but that night a
fraternity, as a prank, painted the entire fence advertising a
fraternity party. Ever since, painting the Fence has been a Carnegie
Mellon tradition.
The Fence at Carnegie Mellon lies at the center of campus, in the area
known as "the Cut". Students guard the fence 24 hours a day, and, as
long as two vigils are maintained, no other student may "take" the
fence. The fence can then be painted by the group that has it, but only
between midnight and 6 am. Only hand brushes may be used; the use of
spray paint or paint rollers is considered vandalism and results in a
fine. The previous paint cannot be stripped, and each new painting adds a
new layer. The original wooden fence finally collapsed in the 1990s due
to the weight from over 1' of surrounding paint, and was immediately
replaced with an identical one manufactured from concrete. Today the
fence is considered "the world's most painted object" by the
Guinness Book of World Records
The Carnegie Mellon Tartans were a founding member of the
University Athletic Association
NCAA Division III
. Prior to World War II, Carnegie Mellon (as Carnegie Tech) played with what are now classified as
NCAA Division I
teams. In 1936, the Carnegie Tech riflery team won the national intercollegiate championship.
The Carnegie Tech men's basketball team was a member of the
Eastern Intercollegiate Conference
throughout the conference's existence from 1932 to 1939
and won the conference championship in 1936, defeating
in a conference championship playoff game.
Carnegie Mellon
Varsity teams are fielded in basketball, track, cross country,
football, golf, soccer, swimming and diving, volleyball, tennis, and
softball. In addition, club teams exist in
ultimate frisbee
, lacrosse, hockey,
skiing & snowboarding
soccer, volleyball, water polo,
Carnegie Mellon Athletics runs a comprehensive and popular intramural
system, maintains facilities (primarily Skibo Gymnasium, Cohon
University Center, Gesling Stadium, and the future Highmark Center for
Health, Wellness and Athletics), and offers courses to students in
fitness and sports. Carnegie Mellon's primary athletic rivals are fellow
Case Western Reserve University
Washington University in St. Louis
; the Tartans had an especially intense rivalry with the
latter's football team
from the 2000s to 2017.
Carnegie Mellon Tartans football
Football at Gesling Stadium
On November 28, 1926, the 6–2 Carnegie Technical Institute football team shut out the undefeated
Notre Dame Fighting Irish
the coach of the Irish at the time, was so confident that the Irish
would defeat "tiny Carnegie Tech" that he decided to skip the game and
travel to Chicago to watch the Army-Navy football game for scouting
purposes. It was only later that he found out by telegram that the Irish
had suffered their first loss of the season. ESPN compared the upset to
the Appalachian State victory over the University of Michigan in 2007.
The game was ranked the fourth-greatest upset in
college football
Since 2014, the Tartans play in the
Presidents' Athletic Conference
NCAA Division III
level. The head coach of the football team is Ryan Larsen, who is
currently the defending Presidents' Athletic Conference coach of the
year.  Prior to losing in the Sweet 16 of this year's D3 playoffs, the
Tartans held a 17-game win streak which was, at the time, the longest
win streak across all NCAA divisions in football.
Track and cross country
In recent years, the varsity track and
programs have seen outstanding success on the
national level. The men's cross country team has finished in the top 15
in the nation each of the last three years, and has boasted several
The men's track team has also boasted several individual All-Americans
spanning sprinting, distance, and field disciplines. Recent
All-Americans from the track team are Bram Miller (2021), Tommy
Vandenberg (2014–2015), Brian Harvey (2007–2009),
(2004, 2005), Mark Davis (2004, 2005), Russel Verbofsky (2004, 2005) and Kiley Williams.
Carolyn Lowe (10,000 meters 1992) is the only track athlete to win an NCAA Division III championship.
With much of the team's support, Lauren Schmidt received the NCAA
Pennsylvania Woman of the Year award (2003), was a two-time All-American
(2001 and 2002), a four-time All-University Athletic Association
selection (1999–2002), and the conference's Player of the Year (2001).
Students can participate in any level of competition across multiple sports including
ultimate frisbee
Alumni and faculty
List of Carnegie Mellon University people
There are more than 117,000 Carnegie Mellon alumni worldwide with the graduating class of 2022.
Alumni and current/former faculty include 21
Nobel laureates
, six members of the
National Academy of Medicine
, 22 members of the
National Academy of Sciences
, 72 members of the
National Academy of Engineering
MacArthur Fellows
Guggenheim Fellows
Packard fellows
recipients (including ten time recipient
recipients, two winners of the
Stockholm Prize in Criminology
Alumni in the fine arts include artists
Philip Pearlstein
Jonathan Borofsky
John-Michael Tebelak
Michael Goldenberg
; television series creator,
René Auberjonois
, children's author
E.L. Konigsberg
David Edward Byrd
, Broadway actress
Amanda Jane Cooper
Rock and Broadway Theater Poster Artist and graphic designer;
Indian film actor
, Boston Pops conductor
, mountaineer and author
, and architect
Alumni in the sciences include
Charles Geschke
, co-founder and chairman of
Stephanie Kwolek
, creator of the
programming language,
Andy Bechtolsheim
, co-founder of
Sun Microsystems
, co-founder of
, co-founder of
, founding CEO of
investor and owner of the
Carolina Panthers
National Football League
, creator of the
, creator of the
; tech executive and entrepreneur
, who perished in the
John Forbes Nash
, a 1948 graduate and winner of the 1994
Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics
, was the subject of the book and subsequent film
A Beautiful Mind
, a 1943 graduate, was a pioneer in programming languages and recipient of the first Turing Award.
Alumni in politics include U.S. Representatives
Sydney Kamlager-Dove
, Puerto Rican politician
Carmen Yulín Cruz
, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President
Charles L. Evans
Allegheny County
Rich Fitzgerald
Secretary of Defense
Charles Erwin Wilson
In popular culture
The campus of Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh has served as the locale for many motion pictures. Alumnus
George A. Romero
(1982) in and around Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall.
Much of the on-campus scenes in the 2000 film
Michael Douglas
, were filmed in Carnegie Mellon's campus.
Other movies filmed at Carnegie Mellon include
The Mothman Prophecies
The Dark Knight Rises
Where'd You Go, Bernadette
. The university is also featured prominently in the films
, and in the anime
was originally conceived by
Stephen Schwartz
as a student musical performed by the
student theatre troupe.
Schwartz also collaborated with drama student
John-Michael Tebelak
to expand his master's thesis project titled
, created under the direction of
, into a musical.
While enrolled at Carnegie Mellon, acting students
(class of 1969) created the characters "Lenny and Squiggy".
The pair continued performing the characters in live comedy routines before joining the cast of the TV series
Laverne & Shirley
In 2008, Carnegie Mellon professor
became a pop culture phenomenon. Based on a lecture he gave in
September 2007 – shortly after he learned his cancer had metastasized –
his book quickly rose to the top of bestseller lists around the country.
list of influential people, he died in July 2008 from pancreatic cancer.
In 2003, Carnegie Mellon established the
Robot Hall of Fame
in partnership with the
Carnegie Science Center
68th Tony Awards
in 2014 announced Carnegie Mellon as its first educational partner in
jointly awarding the "Tony Honor for Excellence in Theatre Education",
which will "honor kindergarten through high school (K-12) theatre
Association of American Universities
Association of Independent Technological Universities
Astrobotic Technology
Disney Research
IBM/Google Cloud Computing University Initiative
List of Carnegie Mellon University people
List of Carnegie Mellon University traditions
Other consists of
Multiracial Americans
& those who prefer to not say.
The percentage of students who received an income-based federal
intended for low-income students.
The percentage of students who are a part of the
American middle class
at the bare minimum.
from the original on July 14, 2023
and Canadian 2024 NCSE Participating Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year
2024 Endowment Market Value, Change in Market Value from FY23 to FY24,
and FY24 Endowment Market Values Per Full-time Equivalent Student"
. National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO). February 12, 2025.
from the original on February 12, 2025
"CMU Fact Sheet"
. Carnegie Mellon University. January 2022.
from the original on January 22, 2023.
– Institutional Research and Analysis – Office of Institutional
Effectiveness and Planning - Carnegie Mellon University"
. Carnegie Mellon University Institutional Research and Analysis.
from the original on January 4, 2022
"Carnegie Mellon 2020–2021 Financial Report"
Carnegie Mellon Annual Financial Report 2021
from the original on January 4, 2022
"IPEDS-Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on November 7, 2021
"The CMU Brand – Brand Guidelines"
from the original on August 3, 2021
"The CMU Brand – Core Colors"
from the original on August 3, 2021
"2015–2016 Undergraduate Catalog: Department of Athletics and Physical Education"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on October 13, 2015
"Carnegie Mellon's Mascot"
. Archived from
"History – CMU"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on September 3, 2018
"Academics – CMU"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on September 4, 2018
"Carnegie Mellon University's Global Presence"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on March 15, 2023.
"University Information – Institutional Research and Analysis"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on March 7, 2022
University, Carnegie Mellon.
"Our History – Tepper School of Business – Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on June 28, 2022
"Carnegie Classifications - Institution Profile"
. Indiana University Center for Postsecondary Research.
from the original on July 27, 2020
"Carnegie Mellon University Athletics"
Carnegie Mellon University Athletics
from the original on August 12, 2023
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on September 9, 2016
Committee on Education, United States House of Prepresentatives (1920).
Charges Against the Federal Board for Vocational Education, Volume 3
. Washington: Government Printing Office.
from the original on August 18, 2021
"The Pratt Institute: Model for Pittsburg School of Technology"
Boston Evening Transcript
. January 16, 1902.
from the original on May 12, 2016 – via Google News Archive Search.
"Mellon Institute at Carnegie Mellon University National Historic Chemical Landmark"
American Chemical Society
. Archived from
on November 14, 2017
"History of MMCC"
. carnegiemellontoday.com. Archived from
on February 21, 2009
Carpenter, Mackenzie (April 1, 2001).
"CMU closing its Carnegie Mellon Research Institute"
. post-gazette.com.
from the original on October 4, 2013.
"CMU student center to be renamed for Cohon"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. March 24, 2014.
from the original on March 26, 2014.
"Energy Mix – Environment at CMU"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on May 18, 2021
"Carnegie Prizes Come Here: Palmer & Hornbostel Win Competition for Architects of Technical Schools"
May 2, 2022, at the
Wayback Machine
The New York Times
. October 27, 1904. p. 1. Retrieved March 29, 2022.
"Randy Pausch's Last Lecture: Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams"
. Randy Pausch. Archived from
on May 13, 2008
World's Best Universities; Top 400 Universities in the World
September 6, 2013, at the
Wayback Machine
. US News. Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
QS World University Rankings – 2012
September 13, 2012, at the
Wayback Machine
. Top Universities (December 19, 2012). Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
"The Tartan reflects on the people and events of 2005–2006"
. The Tartan. 2006. Archived from
on January 14, 2009
"The Gates Hillman Prediction Market - Overview"
. February 8, 2011. Archived from the original on February 8, 2011
"The Top 200 World Universities"
Times Higher Education
from the original on January 15, 2008
Inspire Innovation: About the Campaign – Carnegie Mellon Web Site.
November 30, 2009, at the
Wayback Machine
. Retrieved September 11, 2011.
"Bill Dietrich & Carnegie Mellon University"
permanent dead link
"Retrieved September 20, 2012"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on June 25, 2014
"Heinz Endowments Gift"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on December 13, 2013
"Retrieved November 15, 2013"
. Carnegie Mellon University. November 14, 2013. Archived from
on March 20, 2016
Belko, Mark (2015).
"CMU proposes hotel, office, retail complex to help remake Forbes Avenue"
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
from the original on April 24, 2015
"Carnegie Mellon University Announces Landmark $2 Billion Campaign - News"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on April 21, 2022
"Retrieved August 25, 2015"
. Carnegie Mellon University. August 25, 2015. Archived from
on August 28, 2015
"Building For the Future"
Science Connection
. July 30, 2021.
from the original on January 4, 2022
"CMU, Richard King Mellon Foundation Announce Partnership for New Robotics Center at Hazelwood Green"
Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science
from the original on January 6, 2022
"Retrieved February 5, 2013"
. Carnegie Mellon University. February 5, 2013. Archived from
on December 15, 2014
"Suresh To Step Down as President of Carnegie Mellon University - News"
. Carnegie Mellon University. June 1, 2017. Archived from
on September 4, 2018
"Farnam Jahanian Named President of Carnegie Mellon University - News"
. Carnegie Mellon University. March 8, 2018. Archived from
on March 21, 2018
"Carnegie Mellon Trustee Ray Lane and Stephanie Lane Invest $25 Million in CMU's Computational Biology Department"
from the original on September 13, 2024
"Carnegie Mellon Breaks Ground for Richard King Mellon Hall of Sciences"
from the original on September 13, 2024
"Transfer Students"
Undergraduate Admission Requirements
. School of Drama. July 31, 2016. Archived from
on February 8, 2011.
"Regular Decision & Transfer"
Undergraduate Admissions
. School of Architecture. July 31, 2016. Archived from
on July 9, 2016.
"Transfer Applications"
Application Instructions & Timeline
. School of Design. July 31, 2016. Archived from
on August 7, 2016.
"BXA Intercollege Degree Programs"
CMU College of Fine Arts
. July 31, 2016. Archived from
on August 7, 2016.
"BXA Intercollege Degree Programs – The Programs"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on October 2, 2017
"BXA Intercollege Degree Programs – BHA Program"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on February 7, 2018
"BXA Intercollege Degree Programs – BSA Program"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on February 7, 2018
"America's Best Graduate Schools 2009"
U.S. News & World Report
from the original on October 11, 2007
"BXA Intercollege Degree Programs – BCSA Program"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on February 7, 2018
"UBA Curriculum Change"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on September 25, 2015.
"Integrative Design, Arts, and Technology"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on January 17, 2014
"America's Top Colleges 2024"
. September 6, 2024
"2024-2025 Best National Universities Rankings"
U.S. News & World Report
. September 23, 2024
"2024 National University Rankings"
Washington Monthly
. August 25, 2024
"2025 Best Colleges in the U.S."
The Wall Street Journal
. September 4, 2024
"2024 Academic Ranking of World Universities"
. ShanghaiRanking Consultancy. August 15, 2024
"QS World University Rankings 2025"
Quacquarelli Symonds
"World University Rankings 2024"
Times Higher Education
. September 27, 2023
"2024-2025 Best Global Universities Rankings"
U.S. News & World Report
. June 24, 2024
"CMU's Graduate School Rankings"
U.S. News & World Report
. March 29, 2022.
from the original on May 15, 2019
"US News | Best National University Rankings (2025)"
from the original on December 23, 2019
"U.S. News & World Report Ranks 23 Carnegie Mellon Graduate Programs in Top Ten Nationwide"
. Carnegie Mellon University. March 29, 2022.
from the original on April 1, 2022
"US News | Best Computer Science Schools"
from the original on November 26, 2018
"America's 25 New Elite
. August 21, 2006.
from the original on July 14, 2011
"The Top 25 Recruiter Picks"
The Wall Street Journal
. September 13, 2010.
from the original on December 26, 2014
"Best Universities and Colleges"
. Archived from
on December 23, 2016
"Best Business Schools 2018 US Rankings"
Bloomberg Businessweek
from the original on April 16, 2019
"The Top 25 Undergraduate Drama Schools Ranked"
The Hollywood Reporter
. May 20, 2016.
from the original on May 23, 2016
Appelo, Tim (May 29, 2015).
"The 25 Best Drama Schools for a Master of Fine Arts"
The Hollywood Reporter
from the original on May 30, 2015
"Subject Ranking 2020: Social Sciences"
Times Higher Education
. October 29, 2019.
from the original on December 10, 2019
"Subject Ranking 2020: Arts and Humanities"
Times Higher Education
. September 24, 2019.
from the original on December 10, 2019
Carnegie Mellon University
. Archived from
on November 29, 2019
"Global University Leaders Forum 2015 Members List"
. World Economic Forum.
from the original on September 6, 2015
University, Carnegie Mellon (August 22, 2023).
"CMU President Jahanian Welcomes the Class of 2027+ - News - Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on September 16, 2024
University, Carnegie Mellon (August 22, 2022).
"CMU President Welcomes Class of 2026+ - News - Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on August 22, 2022
"Fall 2020 First-year Admission Rates"
. Carnegie Mellon University Institutional Research and Analysis.
from the original on December 4, 2021
"Common Data Set 2020-2021 - Institutional Research and Analysis"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on January 20, 2022
"Common Data Set 2019-2020 - Institutional Research and Analysis"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on November 12, 2020
"Common Data Set 2018-2019 - Institutional Research and Analysis"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on November 11, 2020
"Common Data Set 2017-2018 - Institutional Research and Analysis"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on October 11, 2018
"Common Data Set 2016-2017 - Institutional Research and Analysis"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on May 18, 2021
"Carnegie Mellon University"
U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges
from the original on February 27, 2017
"Undergraduate Admission - Institutional Research and Analysis"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on January 4, 2022
"General Fact Sheet"
Carnegie Mellon Undergraduate Admissions
. Archived from
on December 12, 2019
"Fall 2021 First-year, First-time, Full-time Enrollment by Race/Citizenship"
Carnegie Mellon Institutional Research and Analysis
from the original on January 4, 2022
University, Carnegie Mellon.
Data Set 2021-2022 - Institutional Research and Analysis - Office of
Institutional Effectiveness and Planning - Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on January 5, 2023
"Financial Aid & Affordability"
. Carnegie Mellon University. May 20, 2021.
from the original on January 18, 2021
University, Carnegie Mellon.
"2023-2024 Undergraduate Tuition - Student Financial Services - Office of Enrollment Management - Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on September 13, 2024
– NCSES Academic Institution Profiles – Carnegie Mellon U. :
Federally funded R&D expenditures, by federal agency: 2020–11"
ncsesdata.nsf.gov
from the original on July 31, 2022
"CMU Is Third in Defense Contracts"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. May 25, 1988.
from the original on May 5, 2016
– via Google News Archive.
"Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center"
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
. Archived from
on February 8, 2008
"New Neuroscience Institute at CMU"
from the original on September 13, 2024
"Barbara Shinn-Cunningham To Lead Carnegie Mellon's New Neuroscience Institute"
from the original on September 13, 2024
"CMU also announces Neuroscience Institute"
"Carnegie Mellon Launches $75 Million Brain Research Initiative"
from the original on March 31, 2017
"CMU Researchers Are Teaching Computers To Read Minds"
. July 3, 2017.
from the original on September 13, 2024
"Australian man uses brain implant to send texts from his iPad"
. November 12, 2022.
from the original on September 13, 2024
"Deep-brain stimulation (DBS) prolonging effect, Carnegie Mellon University, Aryn Gittis"
www.neurotechreports.com
from the original on September 13, 2024
"Advancing dynamic brain imaging with AI"
"New electrodes better capture brain waves of people with natural hair | Science News"
. March 11, 2020.
"Training in Computational Neuroscience: From Biology to Model and Back Again"
from the original on August 16, 2023
"Training Program in Big Data Systems Neuroscience"
from the original on September 13, 2024
Mellon, Richard King Mellon Foundation Announce Historic Partnership to
Accelerate CMU's Science and Technology Leadership and the
Transformation of Hazelwood Green"
. May 20, 2021.
from the original on December 6, 2022
"Carnegie Mellon awarded $10 million for science building, neuroscience"
from the original on September 13, 2024
"Carnegie Mellon Receives $10 Million for Future of Science Initiative"
. September 14, 2021.
from the original on September 13, 2024
"Three New Trustees Elected to CMU Board"
. November 9, 2021.
from the original on September 13, 2024
"Carnegie Mellon University Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition"
from the original on September 13, 2024
"Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition Celebrates 20 Years"
. September 18, 2014
Mellon Lunar Rover Wows XPRIZE Judges, Wins First Milestone Prize for
Development Toward Flight Readiness – Carnegie Mellon School of Computer
. December 16, 2014.
from the original on October 20, 2016
"Robotics Institute"
Robotics Institute
from the original on October 24, 2007
Mark C. Paulk; Bill Curtis; Mary Beth Chrissis; Charles V. Weber (July 1993). "Capability maturity model, version 1.1".
10.1109/52.219617
Mark C. Paulk; Charles V. Weber; Bill Curtis; Mary Beth Chrissis (January 1, 1994).
The Capability Maturity Model: Guidelines for Improving the Software Process
Addison-Wesley Professional
"Software Engineering Institute"
from the original on December 3, 2009
"Welcome to the Human–Computer Interaction Institute"
Human–Computer Interaction Institute
. Archived from
"CMU/Language Technologies Institute"
Language Technologies Institute
. Archived from
on December 16, 2008
"The Claytronics Project – Collaborative Research in Programmable Matter Directed by Carnegie Mellon and Intel"
. Carnegie Mellon University. February 20, 2007.
from the original on June 22, 2014
"In Qatar's Education City, U.S. colleges are building an academic oasis"
The Washington Post
from the original on March 5, 2016
Stoltzfus, Justin.
"Advocate questions motive behind Qatar's financial ties to U.S. colleges"
Gulf News Journal
. Archived from
on April 18, 2016
"While U.S. universities see dollar signs in Qatari partnerships, some cry foul"
Gulf News Journal
. Archived from
on October 4, 2015
"Hate Preachers on Qatar Campus: Obama Gives Qatar Undeserved A+ on Fighting Incitement"
The Huffington Post
. April 29, 2016.
from the original on October 22, 2016
"Home : Hunt Institute"
. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation. Archived from
"Middle States Accreditation"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on July 23, 2013
Schackner, Bill; Chute, Eleanor (March 29, 2012).
"Pitt, CMU make most of proximity"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Pittsburgh, PA.
from the original on April 6, 2013
University of Pittsburgh: Undergraduate Admissions & Financial Aid
January 19, 2012, at the
Wayback Machine
. Pitt.edu. Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
. Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center. Archived from
on December 5, 2011
"Cross Registration"
. Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education. Archived from
on July 27, 2020
"SLRF 2012 in Pittsburgh"
. SLRF 2012 Organizing Committee. Archived from
on January 19, 2012
"Three Pittsburgh institutions. One goal"
. Pittsburgh Health Data Alliance. Archived from
on March 13, 2015
. Archived from
on May 20, 2017
CMU's overview of the history of the Andrew Project
July 17, 2012, at the
Wayback Machine
"University Discoveries"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on October 26, 2016
"The BLISS programming language: a history"
from the original on April 11, 2019
McKusick, Marshall Kirk
Karels, Michael J.
Quarterman, John S.
(April 30, 1996).
The Design and Implementation of the 4.4 BSD Operating System
"How Wi-Fi got its start on the campus of CMU, a true story"
. Archived from
on December 2, 2016
"Alex Hills-Engineering and Public Policy"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on October 26, 2016
Lindstrom, Natasha (October 25, 2016).
"Shrewd venture capitalist makes $31M bet on Carnegie Mellon"
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
from the original on January 2, 2023
Heater, Brian (June 28, 2021).
"How Carnegie Mellon is helping build its own startups and keeping them in Pittsburgh"
from the original on January 2, 2023
Burkholder, Sophie (April 11, 2022).
"Why life sciences and big exits got the spotlight at CMU's 25th Project Olympus Show & Tell"
from the original on January 2, 2023
"Affiliated Companies-Corporate and Institutional Partnerships"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on December 1, 2017
. Archived from
on October 19, 2017.
"College Scorecard: Carnegie Mellon University"
United States Department of Education
from the original on June 30, 2022
Hester, Christa.
"Three traditional CMU celebrations merge: Cèilidh Weekend"
from the original on July 14, 2023
University, Carnegie Mellon.
"Room Types - Housing & Residential Education - Student Affairs - Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on March 26, 2023
"Carnegie Mellon University"
map.concept3d.com
from the original on March 26, 2023
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on July 24, 2011
Fenton, Edwin (2000).
Carnegie Mellon, 1900-2000 : a centennial history
. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Mellon University Press. p. 80.
"Specialized Communities"
from the original on September 13, 2024
from the original on September 13, 2024
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on May 16, 2008
from the original on September 22, 2021
"Intercollegiate rifle team trophy"
. Archived from
on September 1, 2009
"sports-reference.com Eastern Intercollegiate Conference"
from the original on April 22, 2021
Biederman, Lester (March 17, 1936).
"Tartan Five Whips Panthers to Annex Eastern Intercollegiate Court Crown!"
The Pittsburgh Press
from the original on April 22, 2021
"Carnegie Mellon Ultimate Club"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on April 30, 2007
. tartancrew.org. Archived from
on March 11, 2008
"CMU Ice Hockey Club"
. Archived from
on February 1, 2011
"Join the Baseball Club"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on May 13, 2008
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on June 7, 2014
. cmuwp. Archived from
on June 26, 2009
"Carnegie Mellon Cycling Club"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on September 5, 2008
"Tech's Greatest Victory"
. carnegiemellontoday.com. Archived from
on March 17, 2008
"Upset special: With Rockne gone, Irish took a Michigan-like tumble"
from the original on November 6, 2013
D'Andrea, Christian.
"Track teams open season at home"
from the original on September 13, 2024
Wellsville Central Schools – Scrapbook
September 29, 2011, at the
Wayback Machine
. Wellsville.wnyric.org (August 30, 2012). Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
from the original on July 7, 2019
University, Carnegie Mellon.
"Alumni - Institutional Research and Analysis - Office of Institutional Effectiveness and Planning - Carnegie Mellon University"
from the original on August 13, 2023
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on September 9, 2016
"Carnegie Museum of Art"
collection.cmoa.org
. Archived from
on November 7, 2017
"John Currin at Gagosian"
www.gagosian.com
. April 12, 2018. Archived from
on August 30, 2017
"New York 'Fusion' artist Shalom Neuman brings philosophy to Easton"
. Archived from
on September 8, 2017
"Jonathan Borofsky Interview"
Carnegie Mellon Today
. Archived from
on September 14, 2017
"Burton Morris: The King of Pop Art Hits the "Red Carpet"
from the original on May 2, 2019
"News - College of Fine Arts"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on July 24, 2019
University, Carnegie Mellon.
Release: CMU Drama Students Explore Theatrical Boundaries in
"Playground: Festival of Independent Student Work" - News - Carnegie
Mellon University"
from the original on March 27, 2023
davidedwardbyrd.com
"Notable Alumni"
. Archived from
on December 18, 2015
"Judy Resnik : Family, Friends Remember Engineer Who Reached for the Stars"
. Archived from
on January 31, 2016
"Alumnus Gets Star Treatment"
Carnegie Mellon Today
. Archived from
on February 2, 2017
"Major Motion Picture, 'Smart People,' To Be Filmed on Campus"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
on June 4, 2016
Holahan, Jane (December 7, 2006).
"Creator on 'Pippin:' 'It was an inventive time'
. Lancaster Online. Archived from
on September 12, 2007
Music Theatre International
from the original on June 25, 2021
King, Susan (May 21, 1995).
"Lenny and Squiggy: 'In a World of Their Own'
Los Angeles Times
from the original on June 24, 2021
(April 30, 2009).
"Randy Pausch – The 2008 Time 100"
. Archived from
on June 6, 2012
"Zachary Quinto and Matt Bomer Will Introduce New Educator Honor at 2014 Tony Awards"
July 14, 2014, at the
Wayback Machine
playbill.com, June 3, 2014
has the text of the 1920
Encyclopedia Americana
Carnegie Technical Schools
Wikimedia Commons has media related to
Carnegie Mellon University
Official website
Carnegie Mellon Athletics website