"Dietrich College" redirects here. For the school at the University of Pittsburgh, see
Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
College of Humanities and Social Sciences (1969–2011)
College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Richard Scheines
cmu.edu/dietrich
Marianna Brown Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Dietrich College
) is the liberal and professional studies college and the second-largest academic unit by enrollment
Carnegie Mellon College of Engineering
Carnegie Mellon University
The college emphasizes study through rigorous analysis and technology
of the behaviors, institutions, and beliefs that constitute the human
experience, describing itself as “not an ordinary liberal arts school.”
The college was named for Marianna Brown Dietrich, the mother of philanthropist
William S. Dietrich II
, after his donation of $265 million to the university in 2011 – the largest single donation in Carnegie Mellon history.
The Dietrich College offers more than 60 majors and minors through its academic departments and specialized degree programs.
About the Dietrich College
The College of Humanities and Social Sciences admitted its first
freshman class in 1969, following the announcement of the pending
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College
, although roots of the college can be traced to the Division of Applied Psychology, founded in 1915 and led by
Walter Van Dyke Bingham
Walter Dill Scott
as the first research-oriented department within Carnegie Mellon.
The administrative offices of the Dietrich College are located in Baker
Hall. Most of the classes offered by the Dietrich College are held in
Baker Hall and Porter Hall, but some classes, particularly the smaller
recitation classes, are held in various locations throughout the campus.
All undergraduate students at Carnegie Mellon are required to take
several Dietrich classes (at least two, but usually more) as part of
their program's
General Education requirements
Dietrich College's general education program has been called "the most
creative general education program of any American university" by
The New York Times
citation needed
The founding Dean of the Dietrich College was
Erwin Steinberg
. Past deans include
John Patrick Crecine
Stephen Fienberg
John P. Lehoczky
. The current Dean is Professor of Philosophy
Richard Scheines
, who began his term on July 1, 2014.
In December 2014, the
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
awarded the Dietrich College a $2 million grant to develop training in
digital humanities
for Ph.D. students in the departments of English, History, Philosophy, and Modern Languages.
On September 7, 2011,
William S. Dietrich II
, the former chairman of Dietrich Industries, Inc., a subsidiary of
Worthington Industries, Inc.
pledged a gift of $265 million. In response to this gift, Carnegie
Mellon renamed the College of Humanities and Social Sciences to the
Marianna Brown Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences after
William Dietrich's mother.
Departments and programs
Baker Hall, home of the Dietrich College
Dietrich College manages seven departments, one institute, one center, and four interdisciplinary programs.
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Science
in the following fields of study. Additional majors and minors are available in most fields as well.
Graduate programs
at the master's and doctorate levels are also available through the college.
Behavioral Economics, Policy, and Organizations
Chinese Studies
Cognitive Science
Creative Writing
Decision Science
Environmental policy
(additional major only)
Ethics, History, and Public Policy
and Visual media
Information Systems
(primary major only)
International Relations and Politics
Japanese Studies
Literature and Cultures
Professional Writing
Biological Sciences
Russian Studies
Machine Learning
Technical Writing
In addition, undergraduate students can define their own major through consultation with their academic advisor.
Jointly administered undergraduate degree programs
The Dietrich College jointly administers the Bachelor of Humanities
and Arts (BHA) and Science and Humanities Scholars (SHS) degree programs
College of Fine Arts
Mellon College of Science
, respectively.
Pre-professional advising
The office of Carnegie Mellon's
Advising Program is located in the Dietrich College Academic Advisory
Center in Baker Hall. Because it is a university program, all interested
undergraduate students of the university are welcome to make use of the
services offered by the program. Similarly, all interested students of
the university, not just science students, can meet with the advisor for
Health Professions Program
, located in Doherty Hall.
Several of the Dietrich College's graduate programs have been ranked in national and international surveys.
U.S. News & World Report
national rankings for graduate programs place the college's program in
economics at 20th, English 51st, history 44th, statistics 8th, and
psychology 17th. The graduate program in cognitive psychology is
especially highly ranked at 5th in the country.
Times Higher Education Supplement
world university rankings placed Dietrich College at 55th in social sciences and 60th for arts and humanities.
The Dietrich College has particular strengths in the interdisciplinary fields of
cognitive science
decision science
technical writing
cognitive neuroscience
citation needed
"Facts & Figures"
"Enrollment Facts 2017 by College"
. Archived from
"Carnegie Mellon University - Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences - What is the Dietrich College?"
. Carnegie Mellon University
"CMU Psychology: 100 Years"
Carnegie Mellon Psychology
"Richard Scheines Named New Dean of Carnegie Mellon's Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences"
Carnegie Mellon University
"Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Grants Carnegie Mellon $2 Million To Transform Graduate Education in Humanities"
Carnegie Mellon University
"Bill Dietrich & Carnegie Mellon University"
Carnegie Mellon University
"Carnegie Mellon University – Overall Rankings"
U.S. News & World Report
"Subject Ranking 2020: Social Sciences"
Times Higher Education (THE)
. 29 October 2019
"Subject Ranking 2020: Arts and Humanities"
Times Higher Education (THE)
. 24 September 2019
Fenton, Edwin (2000).
Carnegie Mellon 1900–2000: A Centennial History
. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Mellon University Press.
40.443504°N 79.941571°W
40.443504; -79.941571