2010 browser-based video game
Stanford University
Carnegie Mellon University
Initial release
Game with a purpose
"game with a purpose"
, developed by scientists at
Carnegie Mellon University
Stanford University
, that engages users to solve puzzles related to the
The project is supported by the
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
, Stanford University, and the
National Institutes of Health
Prior funders include the
National Science Foundation
—created by some of the same researchers that developed Eterna—the puzzles take advantage of human
problem-solving
capabilities to solve puzzles that are computationally laborious for
current computer models. The researchers hope to capitalize on "
collective intelligence
of Eterna players to answer fundamental questions about RNA folding mechanics. The top voted designs are
in a Stanford biochemistry lab to evaluate the folding patterns of the
RNA molecules to compare directly with the computer predictions,
ultimately improving the
computer models
Ultimately, Eterna researchers hope to determine a "complete and
repeatable set of rules" to allow the synthesis of RNAs that
consistently fold in expected shapes.
Eterna project leaders hope that determining these basic principles may facilitate the design of RNA-based
Eterna creators have been pleasantly surprised by the solutions of
Eterna players, particularly those of non-researchers whose "creativity
isn't constrained by what they think a correct answer should look like".
As of 2016, Eterna has about 250,000 registered players.
Players are presented with a given target shape into which an RNA
strand must fold. The player can change the sequence by placing any of
) at various positions; this can alter the
of the system and dramatically affect the RNA strand's folding
dynamics. In Eterna, different restrictions, such as those on the number
and the number of the three
types, as well as locked bases, are sometimes imposed. A
is occasionally also included, which
with the RNA and has critical effects on the free energy of the system.
In some more advanced puzzles, players may be presented with two or
three different target shapes at the same time; the single sequence the
player produces must fold in the respective shapes under different
conditions (presence or absence of a binding molecule).
Eterna puzzles are roughly classified into three types:
Challenges, Player Puzzles, and Cloud Lab. Challenges are the puzzles
prepared by the game-makers to introduce players to the workings of
Eterna as well as to provide series of pre-set puzzles for players to
attempt. Player puzzles are generated by players, and Cloud Lab is where
the active, proposed and archived laboratory projects are presented for
players to review, vote or attempt.
New players are guided through an initial puzzle progression
which introduces the basic concepts of RNA structure and folding. As
players proceed through puzzles of increasing complexity, the different
game interface elements are described. After completing the 30 puzzles
and earning all five Eterna Essentials badges, players gain access to
the Cloud Lab where they can participate in laboratory research. Once
players have completed a sufficient number of RNA puzzles, they unlock
the chance to generate puzzles for other players.
Biomedical challenges
In 2016, Eterna launched its first biomedical challenge called
an initiative to develop a new diagnostic device for tuberculosis. The
project uses a gene expression "signature" discovered by Stanford
researchers using public data, and aims to create an open source,
paper-based diagnostic kit that can be easily deployed in clinics around
the world. The development of the open source kit is a collaboration
Little Devices Lab
Players successfully designed RNAs to detect the gene signature by
round 2 of the challenge, and as of February 2018 testing continues with
real patient samples.
Following the success of OpenTB, Eterna launched
in August 2017, which challenges players to design single guide RNAs
(sgRNAs) used in CRISPR gene editing. The goal of the project is to
create a new class of sgRNAs that can be modulated by another small
molecule (such as theophylline), allowing gene editing in the body to be
turned on or off as needed. At the conclusion of round 1 in November
2017, players had submitted over 90,000 RNA designs for synthesis, the
largest set of submissions to date.
In response to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, Eterna joined the
OpenVaccine collaboration to develop methods for stabilizing mRNA
molecules that could be stored and shipped without the need for deep
freezing. Players submitted 6000 designs for probing the stability of
small RNA molecules at the nucleotide level, and used the results to
design structured nanoluciferases that were tested for degradation in
vitro and for protein expression in vivo. The OpenVaccine research
resulted in novel methods and principles for designing stabilized mRNA
therapeutics, including vaccines with potentially three times the
current shelf life.
Synthetic biology
In 2019, Eterna launched the ribosome engineering project
OpenRibosome in collaboration with the Jewett Lab at Northwestern
University to enhance the folding of modified Escherichia coli ribosomes
on the iSAT cell-free ribosome construction platform. The protein
production of twenty 16S and twenty 23S sequences designed by players
are being evaluated in a series of four feedback-based iterations. The
ribosomes are being reengineered as molecular machines capable of
synthesizing unique polymers.
Accomplishments
By August 2011, approximately 26,000 players had contributed RNA
sequence designs and over 306 designs have been synthesized for
In January 2014, the results from Eterna have been published in the
journal, with "Eterna participants" listed as co-authors in the paper.
The Eterna gamers beat the supercomputer-powered algorithms in
solving all the 100 RNA secondary structure design challenges, while the
best score of the six algorithms used is 54.  By manipulating the
chemical sequences of RNA the gamers created stable forms of desired
shapes. The strategies designed by the players identified specific
structural features that make inverse RNA folding difficult. The Eterna
researchers hope that by integrating their strategies into algorithms,
improvement in automated RNA secondary structure design can be achieved.
The results of the challenges were published in the
Journal of Molecular Biology
in February 2016.
This was the first paper based on dominant writing contributions—and
co-lead authorship—by non-expert citizen scientists recruited through a
Eterna citizen scientists discovered a discrepancy in SHAPE and DMS
chemical probing when reading strings of 7+ adenosine, and subsequently
published their findings in
It is the first paper written exclusively by citizen scientists to be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
Citizen science
Game with a purpose
List of crowdsourcing projects
"RNA Game Lets Players Help Find a Biological Prize"
, John Markoff,
The New York Times
, January 10, 2011
"Eterna - Invent Medicine"
"Rebooting science outreach"
2018-07-18 at the
Wayback Machine
American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
"RNA research Eterna gets its game on"
San Francisco Chronicle
, January 17, 2011
"Play a game and engineer real RNA"
, January 11, 2011
"Treuille On Eterna - A Game Played By Humans, Scored By Nature"
2012-10-04 at the
Wayback Machine
:Interview with Adrien Treuille, Byron Spice, Faculty & Staff News,
Carnegie Mellon University
, January 22, 2011
"Will NIH Embrace Biomedical Research Prizes?"
2011-07-26 at the
Wayback Machine
, Michael Price,
Taylor, Nick (18 February 2016).
"Gamers crush algorithms in RNA structure design challenge"
. fiercebiotechit.com
permanent dead link
"OpenTB Lab Challenge"
"OpenCRISPR Lab Challenge"
"Online Gamers Could Help Vaccinate Billions"
. 15 October 2020
Steele, Hannah K; Kim, Do Soon; Choe, Christian A; Nicol, John J;
Wellington-Oguri, Roger; Watkins, Andrew M; Parra Sperberg, R Andres;
Huang, Po-Ssu; Participants, Eterna; Das, Rhiju (2021-09-14).
"Theoretical basis for stabilizing messenger RNA through secondary structure design"
Nucleic Acids Research
10.1093/nar/gkab764
"OpenRibosome Lab Challenge"
"The Public, Playing a Molecule-Building Game, Outperforms Scientists"
, Rachel Wiseman, Wired Campus blog,
The Chronicle of Higher Education
, August 12, 2011
"Eterna results published in PNAS"
Lee, Jeehyung; Kladwang, Wipapat; Lee, Minjae; Cantu, Daniel; Azizyan, Martin; Kim, Hanjoo; Limpaecher, Alex;
; Treuille, Adrien; Das, Rhiju; Eterna participants (Jan 17, 2014).
"RNA design rules from a massive open laboratory"
2014PNAS..111.2122L
10.1073/pnas.1313039111
Anderson-Lee, J.; Fisker, E.; et al. (17 February 2016).
"Principles for Predicting RNA Secondary Structure Design Difficulty"
Journal of Molecular Biology
10.1016/j.jmb.2015.11.013
Wellington-Oguri, Roger; Fisker, Eli; Zada, Mathew; Wiley, Michelle; Townley, Jill; Players, Eterna (2020-06-09).
"Evidence of an Unusual Poly(A) RNA Signature Detected by High-Throughput Chemical Mapping"
10.1021/acs.biochem.0c00215
Official website