Military operation during the French and Indian War
Engraving depicting the British arriving at the remains of
Forbes Expedition
was a British military campaign to capture
, led by Brigadier-General
in 1758, during the
French and Indian War
. While advancing to the fort, the expedition built the
Treaty of Easton
served to cause a loss of Native American support for the French,
resulting in the French destroying the fort before the expedition could
arrive on November 24.
Similar to the unsuccessful
Braddock Expedition
early in the war, the strategic objective was the capture of Fort
Duquesne, a French fort that had been constructed at the confluence of
Allegheny River
Monongahela River
in 1754. The site is now located in
's Golden Triangle in the downtown area (Or The Point)
Order of battle
Forbes commanded about 6,000 men, including a contingent of Virginians led by
George Washington
. Forbes, very ill, did not keep up with the advance of his army, but entrusted it to his second in command, Lieutenant Colonel
, a Swiss mercenary officer commanding a battalion of the Royal American Regiment.
Division of 1st Battalion,
Royal Americans
1st Highland Battalion, or
Division of 1st Highland Battalion
Virginia Regiment
2nd Virginia Regiment
Three companies of
North Carolina Provincials
Four companies of
Maryland Provincials
Pennsylvania Regiment
2nd Battalion, Pennsylvania Regiment
3rd Battalion, Pennsylvania Regiment
Lower County Provincials
The expedition methodically constructed
across what is now the southern part of
Appalachian Plateau
region, staging from
and exploiting the climb up via one of the few southern
gaps of the Allegheny
Allegheny Front
, into the disputed territory of the
, which was then a largely-depopulated
tributary territory of the
Iroquois Confederation
The well-organized expedition was in contrast to a
similar expedition
Edward Braddock
in 1755, which ended in the disastrous
Battle of the Monongahela
Map of the route General Forbes' forces took to reach Fort Duquesne in September, 1758.
for most of the summer on the construction of the road and on periodic
fortified supply depots, the expedition did not come within striking
distance of Fort Duquesne until September 1758. In mid-September, a
reconnaissance force was soundly defeated in the
Battle of Fort Duquesne
when its leader,
Major James Grant
, attempted to capture the fort instead of gathering information alone. The French had their supply line from
cut by other British actions and so attacked one of the expedition's forward outposts,
, in an attempt to drive off the British or to acquire further supplies, but they were repulsed during the
Battle of Fort Ligonier
French strategic collapse
Treaty of Easton
concluded on October 26, 1758, caused the remnants
(Delaware), Mingo, and
tribes in the Ohio Valley to abandon the French and set up the
conditions that ultimately forced them to move westward once again. The
collapse of Native American support made it impossible for the French to
hold Fort Duquesne and the Ohio Valley. When the expedition neared to
within a few miles of Fort Duquesne in mid-November, the French
abandoned and blew up the fort. Three units of scouts led by Captain
entered the smoking remnants of the fort under the orders of Colonel
George Washington
on November 24. General Forbes, who was ill with
for much of the expedition, only briefly visited the ruins. He was returned to
in a litter and died not long afterward. The collapse of Indian support
and subsequent withdrawal of the French from the Ohio Country helped
contribute to the "year of wonders" the string of British "miraculous"
victories also known by the
Annus Mirabilis
Braddock Expedition
Nemacolin's Path
Susquehannock peoples
from the early 1610s to the 1620s, began a decades long series of wars
with other native peoples for control of the streams containing
long defeated the Iroquois, but the tribe was all but wiped out by disease by about 1670. The
, another tribe with a range west of the Allegheny Mountains, were similarly defeated by the Iroquois during the Beaver Wars.
By the mid-1670s, in the aftermath of the Beaver Wars, the Iroquois had
conducted aggressive war on most all surrounding tribes south of the
Great Lakes, pushing many other tribes into moving west or oblivion. The
ravages of disease had generated great losses regardless of decades of
relentless wars over the hunting territories. When French and Indian War
started, the Iroquois, weakened by the 1660s defeats by the
had absorbed other tribes and regained their strength. The remarkable
unity of the Iroquois fled during the American Revolution, and the power
of the Iroquois was a casualty of the war and opened up the
for settlement, as all remaining eastern tribes of Amerindians had become fairly weak.
Lowdermilk 1878, p. 249.
Sipe 1929, p. 387.
Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754–1766
. New York: Alfred Knopf.
Cubbison, Douglas R (2010).
The British Defeat of the French in Pennsylvania, 1758: A Military History of the Forbes Campaign Against Fort Duquesne
. Jefferson, NC: McFarland.
Fowler, William M (2005).
Empires at war: The French and Indian War and the Struggle for North America 1754-1763
. New York: Walker & Company.
Lowdermilk, Will H. (1878).
History of Cumberland.
Washington, DC.
O'Meara, Walter
Guns at the Forks
. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Sipe, C. Hale (1929).
The Indian Wars of Pennsylvania.
Forbes Expedition
(George Washington's Mount Vernon)