Colonial fort at the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers
For other uses, see
Fort Duquesne (disambiguation)
Fort Duquesne in
Site information
French and Indian War
Pennsylvania Historical Marker
; originally called
citation needed
established by the French
in 1754, at the confluence of the
rivers. It was later taken over by the British, and later the Americans, and developed as
in the U.S. state of
. Fort Duquesne was destroyed by the French before its British conquest during the
Seven Years' War
French and Indian War
on the North American front. The British replaced it, building
between 1759 and 1761. The site of both forts is now occupied by
Point State Park
, where the outlines of the two forts have been laid in granite slabs.
Map indicating the locations of the two forts
French forts, 1753 and 1754
A 1755 map clearly showing the location of Fort Duquesne at the upper edge of the map.
Model of Fort Duquesne
Point State Park
Downtown Pittsburgh
, where bricks mark the outline of the former site of Fort Duquesne. These bricks have since been replaced by granite slabs.
Fort Duquesne, built at the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers which forms the
, was considered strategically important for controlling the
both for settlement and for trade. The English merchant
had established a highly successful
at the forks as early as the 1740s, to do business with a number of nearby
Native American
villages. Both the French and the
were keen to gain advantage in the area.
As the area was within the drainage basin of the
Mississippi River
, the French had claimed it as theirs. They controlled
(Quebec), the Illinois Country along the Mississippi, and
Mobile, Alabama
In the early 1750s, the French began construction of a line of forts, starting with
Fort Presque Isle
Erie, Pennsylvania
, about 15 miles south in present-day
Waterford, Pennsylvania
, on the Allegheny River in
Franklin, Pennsylvania
Robert Dinwiddie
, Lieutenant Governor of the
Virginia Colony
, thought these forts threatened
extensive claims
to the land area by Virginians (including himself) of the Ohio Company.
In late autumn 1753, Dinwiddie dispatched a young Virginia militia officer named
George Washington
to the area to deliver a letter to the French commander at Fort Le
Boeuf, asking them to leave. Washington was also to assess French
strength and intentions. After reaching Fort Le Boeuf in December,
Washington was politely rebuffed by the French.
in January 1754, Dinwiddie sent Virginians to build
Fort Prince George
Forks of the Ohio
. Work began on the fort on February 17. By April 18, a much larger French force of five hundred under the command of
Claude-Pierre Pécaudy de Contrecœur
arrived at the forks, forcing the small British garrison to surrender.
The French knocked down the tiny British fort and built Fort Duquesne,
named in honor of
Marquis Duquesne
, the governor-general of
. The fort was built on the same model as the French
Washington, who was lieutenant colonel in the newly created
Virginia Regiment
, set out on April 2, 1754, with a small force to build a road to, and then defend, Fort Prince George. Washington was at
in north central Maryland when he received news of the fort's surrender. On May 28,
Washington encountered a Canadian scouting party near a place now known as
Jumonville Glen
(several miles east of present-day
Washington attacked the French Canadians, killing 10 in the early
morning hours, and took 21 prisoners, of whom many were ritually killed
by the Native American allies of the British.  On May 31, Washington
replaced Colonel
as commander of the Virginia Regiment after Colonel Fry died en route to Wills Creek.
The Battle of Jumonville Glen is widely considered the formal start of the
French and Indian War
, the North American front of the
Seven Years' War
Washington ordered construction of
at a large clearing known as the
. On 3 July 1754, the counterattacking French and Canadians forced Washington to
surrender Fort Necessity
. After disarming them, they released Washington and his men to return home.
Although Fort Duquesne's location at the forks looked strong on a
map—controlling the confluence of three rivers—the reality was rather
different.  The site was low, swampy, and prone to flooding.  In
addition, the position was dominated by highlands across the Monongahela
River, which would allow an enemy to bombard the fort with ease.
Pécaudy de Contrecœur was preparing to abandon the fort in the face of
Braddock's advance
in 1755. He was able to retain it due to the advancing British force being annihilated (see below).  When the
Forbes expedition
approached in 1758, the French had initial success in the
Battle of Fort Duquesne
against the English vanguard, but were forced to abandon the fort in the face of the much superior size of Forbes' main force.
The French held the fort successfully early in the war, turning back the
Edward Braddock
during the 1755
Battle of the Monongahela
. George Washington served as one of General Braddock's aides.  A
in September 1758 was repulsed with heavy losses.
Two months later, on November 25, 1758, the
Forbes Expedition
under the Scotsman General
took possession Fort Duquesne after the French destroyed and abandoned the site.
Present-day site
Fort Duquesne was built at the point of land of the confluence of the
Rivers, where they form the
. Since the late 20th century, this area of
Downtown Pittsburgh
has been preserved as
Point State Park
. The park includes a brick outline of the fort's walls, as well as outlines to mark the later Fort Pitt.
In May 2007, Thomas Kutys, an
with A.D. Marble & Company, a Cultural Resource Management firm based in
Conshohocken, Pennsylvania
discovered a stone and brick drain on the Fort Duquesne site. It is
thought to have drained one of the fort's many buildings.  Due to its
depth in the ground, this drain may be all of the fort that has
survived.  The entire northern half of the former fort site was
disrupted and destroyed by the heavy industrial development of the area
during the 19th century.
Fort Duquesne commemorative stamp, 1958 issue
On November 25, 1958, the 200th anniversary of the capture of Fort Duquesne, the
U.S. Post Office
issued a 4-cent Fort Duquesne bicentennial
commemorative stamp
It was first released for sale at the post office in Pittsburgh. The
design was reproduced from a composite drawing, using various figures
taken from an etching by T.B. Smith and a painting portraying the
British occupation of the site as the Fort Duquesne blockhouse burns in
the background.
Colonel Washington is depicted on horseback in the center, while
General Forbes, who was debilitated by intestinal disease, is shown
lying on a stretcher. The stamp also depicts Colonel
, who was second in command to the ailing Forbes, and other figures who represent the
Virginia militia
and provincial army.
Fort Duquesne is the subject of, or referenced, in:
In 1873, Fort Duquesne is the subject of
Old Fort Duquesne
, a historical novel by Charles McKnight, which retells the role of Fort Duquesne during the
French and Indian War
Assassin's Creed III
features Fort Duquesne long after the British rebuilt it. It is one of the main forts in the game that
has to conquer to reclaim it for the
Continental Army
In November 2016, Fort Duquesne appeared in Episode Seven of the first season of the
television series
Age of Empires III: Definitive Edition
features Fort Duquesne being captured by the French in the beginning of the French and Indian War.
Great Britain in the Seven Years' War
France in the Seven Years' War
List of French forts in North America
Battle of Fort Duquesne
Further reading
Fort Duquesne and Fort Pitt: Early Names of Pittsburgh Streets
. Daughters of the American Revolution. Pittsburgh Chapter (Pittsburgh, Pa.). 1907. p. 47.
Craig, Neville B.
Olden Time: A Monthly Publication Devoted to the Preservation of
Documents and Other Authentic Information in Relation to the Early
Explorations and the Settlement and Improvement of the Country Around
the Head of the Ohio, Volume 1
. R. Clarke & Company.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to
"PHMC Historical Markers Search"
(Searchable database)
Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission
. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
"A Pennsylvania Recreational Guide for Point State Park"
Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources
"The Diaries of George Washington, Vol. 1", Donald Jackson, ed., Dorothy Twohig, assoc. ed.
Library of Congress American Memory site
France in America
, Fitzhenry & Whiteside Limited, p. 181
Washington, George (31 May 1754).
Letter from George Washington to John Augustine Washington (May 31, 1754)
Farrell, Cassandra (22 December 2021).
"Joshua Fry (ca. 1700–May 31, 1754)"
Encyclopedia Virginia
Anderson, Fred (2000).
Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754–1766
. New York: Knopf. p. 747.
Miller, John J.; Molesky, Mark (18 December 2007).
Our Oldest Enemy: A History of America's Disastrous Relationship with France
. Random House. pp.
Withers, & Draper, 1895
September 29, 2007, at the
Wayback Machine
"Fort Duquesne Issue"
. Smithsonian National Postal Museum
Anderson, Fred.
Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754–1766
. New York: Knopf, 2000.
Hunter, William A.
Forts on the Pennsylvania Frontier, 1753–1758
. Originally published 1960; Wennawoods reprint, 1999.
Stotz, Charles Morse
Of The War For Empire: The French and English In Western Pennsylvania:
Their Armies, Their Forts, Their People 1749–1764
. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 2005.
Withers, Alexander Scott; Draper, Lyman Copeland (1895).
Chronicles of Border Warfare
. Stewart & Kidd Company.
40.441639°N 80.010944°W
40.441639; -80.010944