Public policy school of Carnegie Mellon University
Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy
School of Urban and Public Affairs (1968-1992)
H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management (1992-2008)
graduate college
Parent institution
Carnegie Mellon University
Ramayya Krishnan
Doctoral students
National Historic Landmark
Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy
, also known as
information college
Carnegie Mellon University
. It consists of the School of Information Systems and Management and the School of Public Policy and Management.
The college is named after CMU's former instructor and the later
from Pennsylvania.
The Heinz College educational process integrates policy analysis,
management, and information technology. Coursework emphasizes the
applied and interdisciplinary fields of empirical methods and
information systems
operations research
organizational behavior
. In addition to full-time, on campus programs in
the Heinz College offers graduate-level programs to non-traditional
students through part-time on-campus and distance programs, customized
executive education
programs for senior managers.
, namesake of the Heinz College
Richard King Mellon
and his wife Constance had long been interested in urban and social
issues. In 1965, they sponsored a conference on urban problems, in which
they began discussions with the
University of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Mellon University
to create a school focused on
. In 1967, Carnegie Mellon President
H. Guyford Stever
Richard M. Cyert
Tepper School of Business
William W. Cooper
and Otto Davis met and formed a university-wide committee to discuss
creating a school that would train leaders to address complex problems
urban communities
Davis was asked to draft a proposal to create such a school and focused
on applying the Tepper School of Business' pioneering quantitative and
skill-based approach to management education as well as technology to
public sector problems.
In 1968, William Cooper and Otto Davis presented the final
proposal for the School of Urban and Public Affairs (SUPA) to the
Richard King Mellon Foundation. The proposal found favor with R. K.
Mellon and he became strongly committed to creating such a school. The
R. K. Mellon Foundation sent a proposal to President Stever to finance
it with an initial grant of $10 million, and on 1 November 1968,
President Stever created the School of Urban and Public Affairs with
William Cooper as the first dean. The school initially drew much of its
faculty from the Tepper School of Business and was based in the Margaret
Morrison Carnegie Hall. Eventually, the school became independent of
other colleges within the university and moved to its current location
when the facility was acquired by the university from the
U.S. Bureau of Mines
. Subsequent Deans include Otto Davis,
, Joel A. Tarr,
Alfred Blumstein
, former Carnegie Mellon Provost Mark Kamlet,
Linda C. Babcock
, and current dean
Ramayya Krishnan
donated a large sum of money to the school, which was then renamed as
the H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management in honor of
Mrs. Heinz's late husband, Senator H. John Heinz III. Senator Heinz,
H. J. Heinz Company
fortune, had been killed when his small private plane crashed one year before.
In 2007, the Heinz School received a grant from the
Heinz Foundations
that transformed the school into a college and formalized the School of
Information Systems & Management alongside the School of Public
Policy & Management under the college's administration. The official
launch of the H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and
Public Policy was held on October 24, 2008 during Carnegie Mellon's
weekend and was led by Dean Krishnan, Teresa Heinz, and former
United States Secretary of the Treasury
, home of the Heinz College
Heinz College is headquartered in Hamburg Hall, a building listed on the
National Register of Historic Places
and designed by noted
Henry Hornbostel
. Hamburg Hall is named for Lester A. Hamburg, an industrialist and philanthropist active in the
Pittsburgh Jewish Community
The Heinz College also has a
South Australia
, which offers master's degrees in Public Policy and Management and Information Technology. Heinz College also maintains a
North Hollywood
as part of the jointly administered master's degree program in Entertainment Industry Management, and a center in
for students in the Public Policy and Management masters program.
Carnegie Mellon is in the process of renovating and expanding the
Heinz College's Pittsburgh facilities through a four-phased process
from the 2013-announced Tepper Quadrangle. The ultimate plan for
Hamburg Hall is to capture new space – approximately 20,000 square feet –
by enclosing the courtyard between the rotunda, the East and West
Wings, and the adjacent Elliott Dunlap Smith Hall with a soaring glass
roof structure. This new space will include a large, multi‐purpose
Classroom of the Future, lounges, meeting/study space, and a café. Phase
I of renovations and expansion of Hamburg Hall was entirely financed by
Heinz College and was completed in September 2013. Heinz College
students immediately benefited from convenient access to the new student
services and computing services suites. The construction of new career
services interview rooms provides up‐to‐date facilities for on‐campus
A December 2013 gift from
The Heinz Endowments
combined with gift commitments from other donors enabled the Heinz
College to expedite the final architectural design of Phase II elements,
finalize necessary construction planning, commence renovations and
expansion, and complete a structure that will add additional value to
the college. A new 150-seat auditorium in the courtyard between Hamburg
Hall and Smith Hall was constructed, and both levels of the rotunda were
transformed into student study and lounge spaces as well as a grand
entrance and lobby area, and renamed as the Teresa Heinz Rotunda. The
new auditorium allows the college to host high-profile speakers.
Further, the west wing of Hamburg Hall now consists of forward-looking
classrooms in the space that was vacated by the Engineering Research
Accelerator when it moved to the newly constructed Scott Hall. An
additional entrance from Forbes Avenue was also constructed.
During Phase III the addition to Hamburg Hall, including a glass
roof, end walls, café, and study space, will be constructed.  Fire
protection and elevator improvements will also be addressed as well as
the addition of new classrooms (including designated executive education
rooms).  The addition of 20,000 square feet to Hamburg Hall will allow
the Heinz College to continue to grow student enrollment.  This phase is
planned for completion by 2017.
The final phase, Phase IV, will renovate third-floor faculty and PhD offices and meeting spaces.
The new additions and renovations will be designed to achieve
U.S. News & World Report
Graduate School rankings, the Heinz College was ranked 14th among
schools of public affairs
. Of the 285 schools of public affairs across the nation that were surveyed for 2019, Heinz College ranked:
1st in Information and Technology Management;
5th in Environmental Policy and Management;
6th in Public Policy Analysis;
14th in Urban Policy;
16th in Health Policy and Management;
19th in Social Policy;
27th in Public Finance and Budgeting; and
32nd in Public Management and Leadership.
Heinz College also ranked 2nd in the
Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index
listing for the top performing programs in
public administration
and 9th in the listing for the top performing programs in public policy.
The PhD program in Public Policy and Management at the Heinz
College was ranked in the top 5 overall and in the top 3 in faculty
research activity by the
National Research Council
The Medical Management program was ranked 4th by Modern
Healthcare Magazine in the 2009 rankings of the top management graduate
schools for physician executives.
InformationWeek
named the Heinz College's Master in Information Systems Management with
Business Intelligence & Data Analytics concentration as one of the
top 20 in big data analytics.
The Heinz College was awarded the 2016 UPS George D. Smith Prize by the
Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences
(INFORMS). The Smith Prize recognizes the best academic departments and
schools in analytics, management science, and operations research.
The Heinz College has the following schools:
School of Public Policy & Management
Master of Science in Public Policy & Management
(MSPPM; full-time). Tracks include:
Accelerated 3-Semester Track
(full-time); geared at incoming students with 3 or more years of relevant experience
(MSPPM-DA; full-time); focuses on quantitative data analytics
(full-time); first year in Adelaide, Australia, second year in Pittsburgh, PA. (See
Heinz College Australia
Washington, D.C.
(MSPPM-DC; full-time); first year in Pittsburgh, PA, second year in Washington, D.C. completing classes and an apprenticeship
Master of Science
Policy & Management (MSHCPM; full-time)
Master of Science
Analytics & Information Technology (Full-time)
Master of Public Management
Master of Medical Management (Part-time)
School of Information Systems & Management
Bachelor of Science
Information Systems
(jointly with the
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Master of Information System Management
(MISM; full-time)
Master of Science
Information Security
Policy & Management (Full-time)
Master of Science in Information Technology
Joint degree programs with the
Carnegie Mellon College of Fine Arts
Master of Arts Management
(MAM; full-time)
Master of Entertainment Industry Management (MEIM; full-time)
Public Policy & Management
Information Systems & Management
Economics & Public Policy (jointly with the Tepper School of Business)
Statistics and Public Policy (jointly with Department of Statistics and Data Science)
Strategy, Entrepreneurship, & Technological Change (jointly with three other departments)
Technological Change & Entrepreneurship (Carnegie Mellon Portugal program)
Machine Learning & Public Policy (jointly with the Machine Learning Department)
Notable associated people
Nilofar Bakhtiar
Senator and former Federal Minister for
Linda C. Babcock
- former Dean, behavioral economist, and expert on the
- former Secretary of the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
Keith Block - Co-CEO of
Alfred Blumstein
- one of the world's top criminologists and operations researchers, winner of the 2007
Stockholm Prize in Criminology
, member of the
National Academy of Engineering
Fellow and past president, director of the
National Consortium on Violence Research
Kathleen Carley
- computational sociologist and expert in
dynamic network analysis
Jonathan Caulkins
- Operations researcher and drug policy expert, INFORMS fellow, founder of the Pittsburgh branch of the
RAND Corporation
expert, first Assistant Director-General of the
World Health Organization
on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, Special Representative of the
U.S. Secretary of State
on Global HIV/AIDS and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Health and Science
William W. Cooper
- founding Dean of Heinz College and pioneer in
management science
Fellow and past president,
John von Neumann Theory Prize
winner, and member of the
Accounting Hall of Fame
John Patrick Crecine
- former President of the
Georgia Institute of Technology
, former Dean of the
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
, former Dean of the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Carmen Yulín Cruz
- current mayor of
San Juan, Puerto Rico
- public health expert and consultant for the
RAND Corporation
- Money & Politics editor at
- co-creator of
and former Chief Technologist for the
Federal Communications Commission
Stephen Fienberg
- renowned statistician and member of the
National Academy of Sciences
Richard Florida
- social economist, urban scientist, and creator of the
United States Secretary of Transportation
- Chief Scientist
Obama for America
Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs
, former Dean of the
Frederick S. Pardee RAND Graduate School
, and former Administrator of the
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs
US Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs
George W. Bush administration
Melvin J. Hinich
signal processing
- expert in information security policy, advisor in the
United States Department of Commerce
, founding director of the Critical Infrastructure Assurance Office, Senior Director for Critical Infrastructure on the
National Security Council
Farnam Jahanian
- President and former Provost of Carnegie Mellon University and former Director of the
National Science Foundation
Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering
Sydney Kamlager-Dove
United States Representative
California's 37th congressional district
David Krackhardt
organizational behavior
social network analysis
Ramayya Krishnan
- Dean and expert in management science and information technology, strategy, and policy,
Fellow and President-elect
Minister of Transportation and Communication
United States Representative
Charles F. Manski
, Economist and econometrician in the realm of rational choice theory, an innovator known for his work on
partial identification
Carnegie Mellon College of Fine Arts
J. Kevin McMahon
- President and CEO of the
Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
David H. McCormick
Under Secretary for International Affairs
US Department of the Treasury
and President of
Bridgewater Associates
Sarah E. Mendelson
United States Ambassador
United Nations Economic and Social Council
Daniel S. Nagin
- criminologist, winner of the 2014
Stockholm Prize in Criminology
, and fellow of the
American Academy of Political and Social Science
- elected member of the
Indian Parliament
Cabinet Minister
Rural Development
Antioch College
, Democratic candidate for
Governor of Massachusetts
, superintendent of the
Pittsburgh Public Schools
, and member of the
Roosevelt family
Denise M. Rousseau
organizational behavior
psychological contract
United States Congressman
from Pennsylvania from 2007 to 2011, former
United States Navy
- Professor of Law and Public Policy specializing in
administrative law
, former Dean of the
University of Pittsburgh School of Law
United States Department of State
Director of Policy Planning
, expert and author in
international relations
policy, and fellow at the
Hoover Institution
Michael D. Smith
- economist in information technology and pioneer in
Robert P. Strauss
- economist and expert in public finance and tax policy
- Former president of Carnegie Mellon University and former Director of the
National Science Foundation
- studio executive, film and interactive producer, and technology entrepreneur and former Head of Show Development at
DreamWorks Animation
- member of the
European Parliament
and former member of the
Italian Parliament
- film executive and talent agent, former CEO at
Cruise/Wagner Productions
- former president of the
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh
Indiana University of Pennsylvania
, and director of Heinz College in Washington, DC
Heinz College Australia
, Heinz College's branch campus in
Adelaide, South Australia
"Faculty Directory"
"Heinz Endowments Gift"
Carnegie Mellon University
to Heinz College | A Message From Dean Ramayya Krishnan | Welcome to
the Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy"
Carnegie Mellon University's Heinz College
"From SUPA to Heinz: 50 Years of Intelligent Action | A History of Heinz College"
Carnegie Mellon University's Heinz College
"Oct. 24: Carnegie Mellon Dedicates New H. John Heinz III College"
Carnegie Mellon University
" "Pittsburgh and Beyond: The Experience of the Jewish Community"
NCJW Oral History Project
" "CMU receives $10M to renovate, expand Heinz College"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"12/03/2014 Town Hall Meeting"
Carnegie Mellon University
. Archived from
on 14 February 2015
"Necessary Investment"
Carnegie Mellon University
"Heinz College - Hamburg Hall Addition"
Carnegie Mellon University
. Archived from
on 7 March 2016
Schackner, Bill (3 March 2011).
"CMU airs 10-year master plan"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"GBBN Architects: Carnegie Mellon University/Heinz College addition"
"Carnegie Mellon University Best Public Affairs Schools U.S. News"
U.S. News & World Report
"The Chronicle: Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index"
The Chronicle of Higher Education
"National Research Council Ranks Ph.D. Program at Carnegie Mellon University's Heinz College Among Nation's Elite"
"MMM Curriculum"
"Big Data Analytics Masters Degrees: 20 Top Programs"
InformationWeek
"CMU's Heinz College Named Top Analytics Program by INFORMS"
. Archived from
Fenton, Edwin (2000).
Carnegie Mellon 1900-2000: A Centennial History
. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Mellon University Press.
Official website
40.443504°N 79.941571°W
40.443504; -79.941571