was a 2009 project using the resources developed in 2007's
IBM/Google Cloud Computing partnership. This initiative was to provide
cloud computing
for the universities of all countries.
This initiative was funded by the
National Science Foundation
awarding $5 million in grants to 14 universities, including
Kyushu University
University of Washington
Carnegie Mellon University
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
The goal of this initiative was to enhance university curricula in
parallel programming techniques and to promote cloud computing research
and development.
With funding help from the U.S. National Science Foundation, the
cloud computing initiative provided assistance to hundreds of university
scientists working on research projects.
By 2011, Google and IBM were completing the program since
high-performance cloud computing clusters had become widely available to
researchers at reasonable costs.
Types of cloud computing environments
- Provide a flexible and cost-effective solution
for individuals and organizations to access computing resources. They
are managed by third-party providers. The cloud infrastructures are
commercial cloud infrastructures. There is very minimal financial
investment, these clouds operates on a pay-per-use basis.
- The cloud infrastructures are dedicated
infrastructures maintained for a specific organization, either in-house
or third-party. They operate mainly for the benefit of the organization
and is usually managed by the organization's IT department.
Integration of both private and public
cloud environments. This allows movement of data and applications
between them to provide more flexibility.
Community Cloud
- This cloud infrastructure is a shared infrastructure used by multiple organizations with similar interests and need.
Challenges of cloud computing
Data Protection-
Data protection is a critical concern for
enterprises, which causes them to be hesitant to trust vendors with
their data security. The worry is data loss to competitors and
maintaining consumer confidentiality. In cloud environments, the
responsibility for data security shifts to service providers, which
makes the enterprises to rely on them for protection.
Security and Privacy
- Security and privacy are major
concerns in cloud computing, especially around data storage and
monitoring by service providers. Moving to a shared infrastructure
raises the risk of unauthorized access, identity management and many
Data and Application Interoperability -
systems to uses standard interfaces to work together, regardless of
their location. Whether in public clouds, private clouds or traditional
IT environments. Cloud providers must support interoperability
standards, allowing organizations to integrate capabilities from various
providers into their applications.
Management Capabilities
- Essential features like
auto-scaling are critical for many enterprises. There is a significant
opportunity to enhance scalability to enhance scalability and load
balancing functionalities currently offered.
Metering and Monitoring-
Cloud providers need effective
monitoring of system performance across various solutions. They also
must provide consistent formats for monitoring cloud applications and
compatibility with existing systems.
"National Science Foundation Awards Millions to Fourteen Universities for Cloud Computing Research"
. IBM. April 23, 2009. Archived from
on May 4, 2009.
M.; Ratnaparkhi, R.; Dillenberger, D.; Doran, J. R.; Dorai, C.;
Anderson, L.; Pacifici, G.; Snowdon, J. L.; Azagury, A.; VanderWiele,
M.; Wolfsthal, Y. (July 2009).
"IBM Research Division cloud computing initiative"
IBM Journal of Research and Development
10.1147/JRD.2009.5429055
– via IEEE Xplore.
Gonzalez, Amado (January 11, 2012).
"The Payoff from the IBM-Google University Research Cloud"
"The Payoff from the IBM-Google University Research Cloud"
. IBM. December 22, 2011.
Further reading
Chen, Jiajia; Qian, Fuliang; Yan, Wenying; Shen, Bairong (March 17, 2013).
"Translational Biomedical Informatics in the Cloud: Present and Future"
10.1155/2013/658925
Note: this cloud research references the initiative
V. K. Saxena and S. Pushkar (2016).
computing challenges and implementations," 2016 International
Conference on Electrical, Electronics, and Optimization Techniques