Information Networking Institute
Academic affiliations
College of Engineering
Carnegie Mellon University
Dena Haritos Tsamitis
4616 Henry Street
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
40.44608°N 79.94805°W
40.44608; -79.94805
Scottish terrier "Scotty"
Information Networking Institute
(INI) was established by
Carnegie Mellon
in 1989 as the nation's first research and education center devoted to information networking.
As an integral department of the
College of Engineering
and a collaboration of the
School of Computer Science
Tepper School of Business
the INI's professional graduate degree programs represent a fusion of
technologies, economics and policies of secure communication networks,
systems and services.
The INI also partners with research and outreach entities to
extend educational and training programs to a broad audience of people
using information networking as part of their daily lives. The INI is
the educational partner of
Carnegie Mellon CyLab
, a university-wide, multidisciplinary research center involving more than 50 faculty and 100 graduate students.
Center of Academic Excellence Designations
Through the work of the INI and CyLab, Carnegie Mellon University has been designated by the
National Security Agency
Department of Homeland Security
as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information
Assurance/Cyber Defense Education (CAE-IA/CD) and a National Center of
Academic Excellence in Information Assurance/Cyber Defense Research
(CAE-R). It has also been designated by the NSA and the U.S. Cyber
Command as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Operations
(CAE-Cyber Ops). Through these designations, the INI and CyLab
participate in the:
Federal CyberCorps Scholarship for Service (SFS) Program
- Students pursuing graduate degrees in
information security
(MSIS or MSISPM) are eligible for scholarships under the SFS program.
Information Assurance Scholarship Program (IASP)
pursuing graduate degrees in information security and seeking careers
with the Department of Defense may be eligible for scholarships under
Capacity Building Program for Faculty from Historically Black and Hispanic Serving Institutions
- The INI and CyLab developed a month-long, in-residence summer program
to help build information assurance education and research capacity at
colleges and universities designated as Minority Serving Institutions –
specifically, Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and
Hispanic Serving Institutions
(HSIs). This program is supported through a grant from the
National Science Foundation
Interdisciplinary culture
The INI teaching faculty are drawn from:
The College of Engineering
, (Electrical and Computer Engineering, Engineering and Public Policy)
The School of Computer Science
The Tepper School of Business
H. John Heinz III College
Software Engineering Institute
Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley
The INI also has an ongoing partnership with the
University of Hyogo
, Graduate School of Applied Informatics.
Faculty and researchers
Faculty involved in teaching and advising in the INI programs are
conducting research in all aspects of information networking and
information security. Affiliated research centers are:
Carnegie Mellon CyLab
SEI's CERT Division
The INI has graduated over 1,400 alumni who currently occupy
positions in a variety of sectors across industry, government and
"About the INI"
Carnegie Mellon's Information Networking Institute
Carnegie Mellon CyLab
"About the INI"
Carnegie Mellon's Information Networking Institute
Official website
Carnegie Mellon CyLab