The Greek tradition at
Carnegie Mellon University
began 113 years ago with the founding of
As of the 2022 fall semester, 14% of the university's undergraduate men
were members of a fraternity, and 11% of the undergraduate women were
members of a sorority.
list of Carnegie Mellon University
fraternties and sororities
, organized by national umbrella organization or type.
Interfraternity Council
Interfraternity Council
has the following fraternities on campus.
Alpha Epsilon Pi
Alpha Sigma Phi
Phi Delta Theta
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Multicultural Greek Council
Multicultural Greek Council
has the following members on campus.
alpha Kappa Delta Phi
Kappa Phi Lambda
Lambda Phi Epsilon
National Pan-Hellenic Council
National Pan-Hellenic Council
has the following members on campus.
Alpha Kappa Alpha
Alpha Phi Alpha
Delta Sigma Theta
Kappa Alpha Psi
Panhellenic Council
Panhellenic Council
has the following sororities on campus.
Alpha Chi Omega
Delta Delta Delta
Kappa Alpha Theta
Kappa Kappa Gamma
Non-social organizations
Professional fraternities
Alpha Kappa Psi
Sigma Alpha Iota
Service fraternities
Alpha Phi Omega
Lurding, Carroll and Becque, Fran. (October 10, 2022) "
Carnegie Mellon University
Almanac of Fraternities and Sororities
. Urbana: University of Illinois. Accessed October 23, 2023.
"Carnegie Mellon University Student Life"
U.S. News & World Report
"The Interfraternity Council - Student Leadership, Involvement, and Civic Engagement - Student Affairs"
Carnegie Mellon University
"The Multicultural Greek Council - Student Leadership, Involvement, and Civic Engagement - Student Affairs"
Carnegie Mellon University
"The National Pan-Hellenic Council - Civic Engagement - Student Affairs"
Carnegie Mellon University
"The Panhellenic Council - Student Leadership, Involvement, and Civic Engagement - Student Affairs"
Carnegie Mellon University
"Alpha Kappa Psi Professional Business Fraternity | TartanConnect"
Carnegie Mellon University
"Sigma Alpha Iota"
Sigma Alpha Iota