Archaeological site near Avella, Pennsylvania, US
United States historic place
Meadowcroft Rockshelter
U.S. National Register of Historic Places
U.S. National Historic Landmark
Pennsylvania state historical marker
Washington County History & Landmarks Foundation Landmark
Meadowcroft Rockshelter in
Jefferson Township
Show map of Pennsylvania
Show map of the United States
Jefferson Township, Washington County, Pennsylvania
Avella, Pennsylvania
40.28639°N 80.49167°W
40.28639; -80.49167
0.2 acres (0.081 ha)
Significant dates
November 21, 1978
Designated PHMC
September 19, 1999
Meadowcroft Rockshelter
archaeological site
which is located near
Jefferson Township, Pennsylvania
in a bluff overlooking Cross Creek (a tributary of the
and contains evidence that the area may have been continually inhabited
for more than 19,000 years. If accurately dated, it would be one of the
earliest known sites with evidence of a human presence and continuous
human occupation in the New World.
The site is located twenty-seven miles west-southwest of
Pittsburgh metropolitan area
The site operates as a division of the
Heinz History Center
of Pittsburgh and has a museum and a reconstruction of a circa 1570s
Monongahela culture
Indian village. Meadowcroft Rockshelter is recognized as a
National Historic Landmark
, a Pennsylvania Commonwealth Treasure, and as an official project of
Save America's Treasures
Geology and location
The rockshelter is a natural formation beneath an overhanging cliff of Morgantown-Connellsville
, which is a thick
-age sandstone, brown in color. Meadowcroft is in the
Allegheny Plateau
, northwest of the
Appalachian Basin
Meadowcroft Rockshelter and other Native American points of interest in
Southwestern Pennsylvania
Native Americans left the site during the
American Revolutionary War
. It was not rediscovered until many years later, when, in 1955, Albert Miller found the first artifacts in a
burrow. Miller delayed reporting his findings so as to not attract vandals, until he contacted
James M. Adovasio
, who led the first excavations of the site in 1973 until 1979 by the Cultural Resource Management Program of the
University of Pittsburgh
. Further University of Pittsburgh field school excavations were conducted through 1989.
Since the 1990s, more recent work has also been undertaken by Adovasio through the
Archaeological Institute.
The methods of excavation used at Meadowcroft are still seen as
state-of-the-art. It is viewed as one of the most carefully excavated
sites in North America.
Inside the shelter
Meadowcroft has produced what may be
remains, found as deep as 11.5 feet underground. The site also has yielded many tools, including
, bifacial fragments,
lamellar blades
projectile point, and chipping debris. Recoveries of note also include fluted points, which are a marker of the
period. Remains of
from eastern Pennsylvania and marine shells from the Atlantic coast
suggest that the people inhabiting the area were mobile and involved in
long-distance trade.  At least one basin-shaped hearth was reused over
Meadowcroft has also yielded the largest collection of flora and
fauna materials ever recovered from a location in eastern North America.
The arid environment provided the necessary and rare conditions that
permitted excellent botanical preservation. In total, animal remains
representing 149 species were excavated. Evidence shows that people
gathered smaller game animals as well as plants, such as
, fruits, nuts, and seeds.
Radiocarbon dating
of the site indicated occupancy beginning 16,000 years ago (14,000 BCE)
and possibly as early as 19,000 years ago (17,000 BCE). However, the
dates are still controversial. A recent (2013) survey carried out by the
Society for American Archaeology reported support from 38% of
archaeologists, with 20% rejecting the early dates.
Criticism of these early radiocarbon dates has focused on the
potential for contamination by ancient carbon from coal-bearing strata
in the watershed.
The samples, tested by an independent third party geomorphologist,
concluded that the samples showed no evidence of groundwater activity.
Tests performed via accelerator mass spectrometry also support the
Proponents of the notion that contamination occurred note that the
alkali-soluble humates in charcoal samples from the site are older than
the charcoal in the samples.
If authentic, these dates would indicate that Meadowcroft was used in the pre-
era and, as such, provides evidence for very early human habitation of the
Meadowcroft Rockshelter may be one of the oldest known sites of human
habitation in North America, providing a unique glimpse into the lives
of prehistoric hunters and gatherers.
remains have all been found at the site.
An unusual type of arrowhead was found at the site, which has been named the
Miller Lanceolate projectile point
. Similar unfluted lanceolate points have also been found at the adjacent sites. As Goodyear writes:
lithic artifacts were recovered to define the Miller complex. This
complex consists of thin bifaces, including one lanceolate point, the
Miller Lanceolate; small prismatic blades; retouched flake tools and
related to late-stage core and biface reduction and tool kit maintenance.
Miller complex is further defined by surveys done in the Cross Creek
watershed, where other lanceolate points, small prismatic blades, and
small polyhedral blade cores have been recovered. According to Adovasio
this complex has a Eurasiatic and Siberian appearance. These authors
also note that small blades and polyhedral cores are absent from
subsequent Paleoindian fluted-point assemblages in this region,
reinforcing the technological distinctiveness of the Miller complex.
is located about ten miles
southeast of Meadowcroft, and it is also important in defining the
Miller complex. This site yielded a great variety of distinctive
Meadowcroft-style blade implements and several small, cylindrical
polyhedral cores.
, similar points have been found, where they are dubbed as the Early Triangular type. Some similar finds were made at the
site in Florida as well.
Because of the very long occupational sequence at Meadowcroft, it
became a very important site and is seen as quite valuable for
comparative analysis:
The Pre-Clovis artifacts from Meadowcroft Rockshelter
include a lanceolate point (named the Miller Lanceolate), bifaces,
unifaces, prismatic blades, core fragments, and debitage. Remains from
other Pre-Clovis sites (e.g.,
, South Carolina, etc.) are usually compared to the Meadowcroft assemblage.
In addition, claims for Pre-Clovis inhabitants in other sections of the New World also are evaluated with Meadowcroft in mind.
According to some scholars, Clovis, Folsom, and other fluted point
complexes may have derived from such unfluted lanceolate points.
Other relevant sites in the northeastern United States
Alternatives to the Clovis First theory
Other sites in the northeastern United States with evidence of possible pre-Clovis human presence include:
Burning Tree Mastodon
(Ohio), Mitchell Farm (Delaware), Barton (
Barton Village Site
, Maryland), Miles Point, and Parsons Island.
Tourism and historical designations
Renovations to the rock shelter in 2008 were made so that visitors
can see some of the tools and campfires made by the first Americans
thousands of years ago. The rockshelter is recognized as a Pennsylvania
Commonwealth Treasure and is an official project of
Save America's Treasures
. The historic site also includes a recreation of a 16th-century
village as well as 18th and 19th century buildings from European and United States settlement.
The site was listed on the
National Register of Historic Places
in 1978.  In 1999, the
Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission
historical marker
noting the historic importance of the site.
It was designated a
National Historic Landmark
It is also designated as a historic public landmark by the
Washington County History & Landmarks Foundation
Chiquihuite cave
List of Native American archaeological sites on the National Register of Historic Places in Pennsylvania
List of National Historic Landmarks in Pennsylvania
"National Register Information System"
National Register of Historic Places
National Park Service
. March 13, 2009.
"Meadowcroft Rockshelter - PHMC Historical Markers"
Historical Marker Database
. Pennsylvania Historical & Museum Commission. Archived from
on December 7, 2013
"Meadowcroft Rockshelter"
National Historic Landmark summary listing
. National Park Service
"Driving Directions | Visit"
"City Distance Calculator"
www.geobytes.com
. Archived from
on December 3, 2013.
Meadowcroft Rockshelter
2010-06-10 at the
Wayback Machine
, Mercyhurst Archeological Institute. Mercyhurst College. Erie, PA. Retrieved 2010-03-05.
. Heinz History Center
Adovasio, J.M.; Donahue, J.; Stuckenrath, R. (April 1990). "The Meadowcroft Rochshelter Radiocarbon Chronology".
American Antiquity
McConaughy, Mark (April 15, 2004).
"National HIstoric Landmark Nomination: Meadowcroft Rockshelter"
Templeton, David (October 15, 2000).
"David Templeton's Seldom Seen: Meadowcroft still ignites controversy over settlers"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Heinz History Center: Rockshelter Artifacts
2011-06-24 at the
Wayback Machine
, Heinz History Center. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved 2010-10-17.
Ancient Pa. Dwelling Still Dividing Archaeologists
Kenneth B.; Munson, Cheryl Ann (April 1992). "Comments on the
Meadowcroft Rockshelter: Radiocarbon Chronology and the Recognition of
Coal Contaminants".
American Antiquity
"Meadowcroft Rockshelter"
Michael & Stafford, Thomas (2014). The First Americans: A Review of
the Evidence for the Late Pleistocene Peopling of the Americas. In
Paleoamerican Odyssey (pp. 541-560). Texas A&M University Press.
Sturdevant, Jay T. (January 1, 1999).
an Open Book: Analysis of the Current Pre- Clovis vs. Clovis Debate
from the Site of Meadowcroft Rockshelter, Pennsylvania and Monte Verde,
Nebraska Anthropologist
Adovasio, J.M.; Donahue, J.; Pedler, D.R.; Stuckenrath, R. (1998).
"Two Decades of Debate on Meadowcroft Rockshelter"
North American Archaeologist
10.2190/1636-pbkv-n0nc-q11h
Goodyear, Albert C. (January 1, 2005).
"Evidence of Pre-Clovis Sites in the Eastern United States"
Scholar Commons
. University of South Carolina
Adovasio, J. M., D. Pedler, J. Donahue, and R. Stuckenrath (1999),
No Vestige of a Beginning nor Prospect for an End: Two Decades of Debate on Meadowcroft Rockshelter
In Ice Age Peoples of North America: Environments, Origins, and
Adaptations of the First Americans edited by R. Bonnichsen and K. L.
Turmire, pp. 416–31. Oregon State University Press, Corvallis. p.418
J.M. (2014) Meadowcroft: Geography and Culture. In: Smith C. (eds)
Encyclopedia of Global Archaeology. Springer, New York, NY.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4419-0465-2_1656
Boldurian, A. T. 1985.
in flint working technology at the Krajacic site: possible
relationships to Pre-Clovis Paleoindian occupation of the Cross Creek
drainage in southwestern Pennsylvania.
Unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, University of Pittsburgh.
"Narrative Statement of Significance"
U.S. National Park Service
. Archived from
on June 12, 2018
Waters, Michael R.; Keene, Joshua L.; Forman, Steven L.; Prewitt, Elton R.; Carlson, David L.; Wiederhold, James E. (2018).
Clovis projectile points at the Debra L. Friedkin site,
Texas—Implications for the Late Pleistocene peopling of the Americas"
Science Advances
(10): eaat4505.
2018SciA....4.4505W
10.1126/sciadv.aat4505
--(Debra L. Friedkin site is also known as
Buttermilk Creek Complex
Goodyear 2001; McAvoy and McAvoy 1997; Standford and Bradley 2002:259-260
Lozano Ruiz 2000
Lothrop, Jonathan C.; Lowery, Darrin L.; Spiess, Arthur E.; Ellis, Christopher J. (2016).
"Early Human Settlement of Northeastern North America"
10.1080/20555563.2016.1212178
"Meadowcroft Rockshelter and Historic Village"
. June 13, 2017. Archived from the original on June 13, 2017
"Meadowcroft Rock Shelter"
Landmark Registry - Public Landmark
Washington County History & Landmarks Foundation
. 2008. Archived from
on March 14, 2012
Meadowcroft Rockshelter and Museum of Rural Life
"The Greatest Journey," James Shreeve,
National Geographic
, March 2006, p. 64.  Shows dates 19,000 to 12,000 years ago; as well as
(13,500 years ago) and
14,800 years ago.
Heinz History Center
Further reading
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette article on Meadowcroft expert
American Indian Village reenactment
Adovasio, J. M., with Jack Page.
The First Americans: In Pursuit of Archaeology's Greatest Mystery.
New York: Random House, 2002. Chapter 7 focuses on the Meadowcroft
Rockshelter; the rest of the book sets the dig and the controversy
surrounding it in a broader scholarly context.
Chandler, Graham. "The Dawn of Civilization"
, 96 (1998): 18. A brief article about the site and its artifacts.
Shea, Neil. "The First Americans?"
National Geographic
, 207.5 (2005): 2.
"Who's Really on First?",
Natural History
, 109.9 (Nov 2000):
10.  Presents differing opinions between James Adovasio and Anna
Curtenius Roosevelt regarding the accuracy of  dating artifacts from
Wikimedia Commons has media related to
Meadowcroft Rockshelter
Meadowcroft Rockshelter and Historic Village official website
"America's Stone Age Explorers"