United States historic place
Mellon Institute
U.S. Historic district
Contributing property
Pittsburgh Landmark – PHLF
40.4461222°N 79.9510333°W
40.4461222; -79.9510333
Schenley Farms Historic District
Architectural style
Schenley Farms Historic District
Significant dates
Designated PHLF
Mellon Institute of Industrial Research
was a research institute in
, Pennsylvania that became part of
Carnegie Mellon University
. It was founded in 1913 by
Richard B. Mellon
University of Pittsburgh
, and was originally located in
. After becoming an independent research center and moving to a new building on
in 1937, the Mellon Institute merged with the
Carnegie Institute of Technology
in 1967 to form Carnegie Mellon University. While it ceased to exist as
a distinct institution, the landmark building bearing its name remains
located at the corner of Fifth Avenue and Bellefield Avenue in
, the city's university district. It is sited adjacent to
The Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering Institute (SEI)
University of Pittsburgh
Bellefield Hall
and is across Bellefield Avenue from two other local landmarks: the University of Pittsburgh's
Heinz Memorial Chapel
Cathedral of Learning
(1874–1964), the Mellon Institute building has
architecture and elegant construction, with its signature monolithic
columns (the largest monolithic columns in the world).
Andrew Mellon, who served as
United States Secretary of the Treasury
, specified to Janssen a building with a monumental
similar to the Treasury Building in
Washington, D.C.
The proportions of the Mellon Institute's street facades are nearly those of the long lateral
, Greece. The Mellon Institute building was completed and dedicated posthumously to the Mellon brothers in May 1937.
The Mellon Institute building houses the Office of the Dean for Carnegie Mellon University's
Mellon College of Science
as well as the administrative offices and research laboratories for the
Department of Biological Sciences and Department of Chemistry. From
1986 until 2006, it also housed the
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
The Mellon Institute of Industrial Research was first established as the Department of Industrial Research at the
University of Pittsburgh
It conducted research for firms on a contractual basis; a company would
contract the institute to solve a specific problem, and the institute
would then hire an appropriate scientist to do the research. The results
of the research then became the property of the contracting company.
In 1928, the institute was incorporated as a
independent research center and planning for a new Mellon Institute
building began that same year. When completed in 1937, the institute
moved into its new building which sat directly across from the newly
completed Cathedral of Learning, and handed its original facility, now
, back to the University of Pittsburgh. The original design called for two more pillars than architect Janssen decided on.
citation needed
The two extra pillars were buried in the large lawn beside the Cathedral of Learning.
citation needed
The pillars are set to be unburied in 2014
citation needed
as a new pipe system is installed in the basement of the Cathedral.
In 1967, declining use of independent research institutes for the
outsourcing of corporate industrial research led Mellon Institute to
merge with the Carnegie Institute of Technology to form Carnegie Mellon
University. The "Carnegie Institute of Technology" name was retained to
refer to the engineering portion of Carnegie Mellon's "College of
Engineering and Science".
American Chemical Society
recognized the Mellon Institute as a
National Historic Chemical Landmark
for its contributions to industrial research and training from its
inception in 1913 until its merger with the Carnegie Institute of
Technology. Researchers at the Mellon Institute had contributed more
than 4,700 papers, 1,600 patents, and other research products, including
George O. Curme, Jr.'s
discovery of a method for producing
from petroleum that resulted in the production of
and research in
organosilicones
and the resulting establishment of the
Dow Corning Corporation
For decades, the columns of the Mellon Institute building have
served as a popular background for photographers shooting Pittsburgh
wedding parties.
Fictional portrayals
Exterior shots of the Mellon Institute were used to portray the
fictitious Tanner Museum in the series premiere of the short-lived 2006
television drama
used the exterior to depict 1960s-era Washington, D.C.
filmed on location to depict Federal Courthouses and other government buildings.
shows an interior shot of a lecture hall in Mellon Institute.
The Mothman Prophecies
depicted the building as a fictional institute for paranormal studies in Chicago.
The Dark Knight Rises
filmed on location to depict "Gotham City Hall".
"National Register Information System"
National Register of Historic Places
National Park Service
. July 9, 2010.
"Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation: PHLF Plaques & Registries"
. January 27, 2007. Archived from
on January 27, 2007
U., J. D. (1937). "The New Building of Mellon Institute".
The Scientific Monthly
1937SciMo..45...90U
Webteam, University of Pittsburgh University Marketing Communications.
"University Times » Chilled water on the way"
www.utimes.pitt.edu
"Mellon Institute of Industrial Research"
National Historic Chemical Landmarks
. American Chemical Society
Fenton, Edwin (2000).
Carnegie Mellon 1900–2000: A Centennial History
. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Mellon University Press.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to
Mellon Institute
Mellon College of Science
Mellon Institute architecture
Documentary on the construction of the Mellon Institute
1987 news feature on Institute's history