Book digitization project
Million Book Project
Universal Library
) was a book digitization project led by
Carnegie Mellon University
School of Computer Science and University Libraries
from 2001 to 2008. Working with government and research partners in
Digital Library of India
, the project scanned books in many languages, using
to enable full text searching, and providing free-to-read access to the books on the web. As of 2007
, they have completed the scanning of 1 million books and have made the entire catalog accessible online.
Million Book Project
charity organization with various scanning centers throughout the world.
By December 2007, more than 1.5 million books had been scanned,
in 20 languages: 970,000 in Chinese; 360,000 in English; 50,000 in
; and 40,000 in Arabic.
Most of the books are in the
but permission has been acquired to include over 60,000 copyrighted
books (roughly 53,000 in English and 7,000 in Indian languages). The
books are mirrored in part at sites in India, China, Carnegie Mellon,
Internet Archive
Bibliotheca Alexandrina
The books that have been scanned to date are not yet all available
online, and no single site has copies of all the books that are
available online.
The million book project was a "proof of concept" that has largely been replaced by
, Google Book Search and the Internet Archive book scanning projects.
The Internet Archive may have some books that Google does not (e.g.:
The Poems of Robert Frost
published after the end of 1922).
National Science Foundation
(NSF) awarded Carnegie Mellon $3.63M over four years for equipment and
administrative travel for the Million Book Project. India provided $25M
annually to support language translation research projects. The
Ministry of Education in China
provided $8.46M over three years. The Internet Archive provided equipment, staff and money. The
University of California, Merced Library
funded the work to acquire copyright permission from U.S. publishers.
The program ended in 2008.
Internet Archive
hosted an online symposium in 2021 to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Million Book Project.
Partner institutions
The institutions in China which are participants in this project include:
Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China
Chinese Academy of Science
Fudan University
Nanjing University
Peking University
Tsinghua University
Zhejiang University
Northeast Normal University
The institutions in India which are participants in this project include:
Indian Institute of Science
International Institute of Information Technology
Indian Institute of Information Technology
Anna University
Mysore University
University of Pune
Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams
Shanmugha Arts, Science, Technology & Research Academy
Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Education
Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation
The institutions in the U.S. which are participants include:
Internet Archive
Indiana University
Pennsylvania State University
Stanford University
University of California, Berkeley
University of California, Merced
University of Pittsburgh
University of Washington
The institutions in the EU which are participants include:
Copenhagen University
Aarhus University
Odense University
Denmark Virtual Library
Digital library
Digital preservation
Universal library
Project Gutenberg
"ULIB [About Us]"
. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from
"The Million Book Project - 1.5 million scanned!"
. London Business School Library. Archived from
"Universal Library : Free Books : Free Texts : Download & Streaming : Internet Archive"
"The Poems Of Robert Frost"
Frost, Robert (1949).
"The Poems of Robert Frost - Google Books"
"Universal Digital Library"
. November 9, 2016.
"Enduring Legacy: Million Book Project Turns 20"
The Universal Digital Library
The Million Book Digital Library Project
(paper from December 1, 2001)
Frequently Asked Questions
Universal Library, China site
Universal Digital Library at Allahabad
Digital Library of India
Internet Archive:
the archived pilot
larger partial collection