Division of the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University
Robotics Institute
Matthew Johnson-Roberson
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
http://www.ri.cmu.edu/
Robotics Institute (RI)
is a division of the
School of Computer Science
Carnegie Mellon University
.  A June 2014 article in
Robotics Business Review
magazine calls it "the world's best robotics research facility" and a "pacesetter in robotics research and education."
The Robotics Institute focuses on bringing robotics into everyday
activities. Its faculty members and graduate students examine a variety
of fields, including space robotics, medical robotics, industrial
systems, computer vision and artificial intelligence, and they develop a
broad array of robotics systems and capabilities.
Established in 1979 by
the RI was the first robotics department at any U.S. university.
In 1988, CMU became the first university in the world offering a Ph.D. in Robotics.
In 2012, the faculty, staff, students and postdocs numbered over 500,
and the RI annual budget exceeded $65M,
making the RI one of the largest robotics research organizations in the world.
The RI occupies facilities on the Carnegie Mellon main campus as well as in the
and Hazelwood neighborhoods of Pittsburgh, totaling almost 200,000 sq.
ft of indoor space and 40 acres of outdoor test facilities.
National Robotics Engineering Center
(NREC) was established in 1996 as the commercial arm of the RI, with
the intention of applying robotic technology to commercial and defense
applications. It has partnered with more than 300 companies such as
, as well as with the
In September 2015, the NREC secured a $5.5 million gift from the car transport company,
, to support three robotics fellowships and research directed at developing safe,
self-driving cars
This donation was made roughly seven months after Uber poached 40 NREC
scientists, including its director, Tony Stenz, and other key program
leaders, while the two organizations closely collaborated on driverless
Field Robotics Center
(FRC) has developed a number of significant robots, including
, which finished second and third in the
2005 DARPA Grand Challenge
, which won the
2007 DARPA Grand Challenge
Media coverage and awards
Almost Human: Making Robots Think
describes the development of robots at the Robotics Institute,
particularly focusing on the developers and describing field testing in
remote locations.
The robot HERB was featured in the "Oreo Separator" video series.
RI robots and researchers have been featured in the
Scientific American Frontiers
episode "Natural Born Robots"
and in multiple NPR radio segments.
The Advanced Robotic Laser Coating Removal System (ARLCRS) won a 2013
gold award in the category of materials science processes.
Notable faculty (current and past)
Matthew Johnson-Roberson
Sebastian Thrun
David Touretzky
Jessica Hodgins
Field Robotics Center patents
Edwards, John (6 June 2014).
"Carnegie Mellon: The World's Premier Robotics Institute?"
roboticsbusinessreview.com
. Robotics Business Review
"Robotics Institute: History of the Robotics Institute"
. Archived from
Robotics Institute: About the Robotics Institute
May 9, 2008, at the
Wayback Machine
"The 10 Best Universities For Robotics In The US"
Business Insider
"Uber gives $5.5M to Carnegie Mellon for robotics fellowships"
The Washington Times
Ramsey, Mike; Macmillan, Douglas (31 May 2015).
"Carnegie Mellon Reels After Uber Lures Away Researchers"
The Wall Street Journal
Gutkind, Lee (2006).
Almost Human: Making Robots Think
. New York: W.W. Norton.
Knife-wielding robot HERB separates Oreo cookies
"NATURAL BORN ROBOTS"- SHOW 1002, on season 10, episode 2"
Scientific American Frontiers
. Chedd-Angier Production Company. 1999–2000.
from the original on 2006-01-01.
Robot Receptionist Dishes Directions and Attitude
A Hall of Fame for Robots
Robot Road Test
2013 Edison Award Winners
Robotics Institute Official Website
Travel Channel showcase of the RI