Student-run theatre organization
40.44333°N 79.94167°W
40.44333; -79.94167
Scotch'n'Soda Theatre
Carnegie Mellon University
The White Friars Club
Board Of Directors
Scotch'n'Soda Theatre
is a student-run theatre organization that resides on the campus of
Carnegie Mellon University
Its initial dedication was the creation and production of original
musicals, but has now taken to performing both professionally published
and student-written materials. Students are welcome to write, compose,
design, direct, perform in, and otherwise become involved with every
aspect of each production. The organization is open to all
Carnegie Mellon
students from all backgrounds who are interested, and all performances are public with varying ticket prices.
Scotch'n'Soda Theatre is the nation's oldest co-ed student theater
group, and is one of the oldest and largest student organizations at
Carnegie Mellon University
. It was founded in the fall of 1907 as The White Friars Club, providing a theatrical outlet for the students of the
Carnegie Technical Schools
Their first production, in the spring of 1908, was entitled "All in a
Dormitory" and gave a comical look at life on campus. The club would
grow in only three years to have a membership of seventy-eight in 1910
and continued on to have its first financially successful year in 1911.
The White Friars Club was short-lived, as student theater went on hiatus during
. It wasn't until 1932 when a student theater group called
The Bacchanalians
formed to produce a musical for Carnegie Tech's
Spring Carnival
The organization took its current name in 1937 during a vote by
the membership. Unconfirmed rumor has it that the name with the most
votes was Hop'n'Scotch, but the leaders of the organization fixed the
vote so that Scotch'n'Soda came out victorious. In any case, the newly
named student-run theater troupe founded by three drama majors began
producing original full-length musicals for Spring Carnival. With the
exception of a five-year break from 1942 to 1946 for
, Scotch'n'Soda has been producing musicals for Carnival continuously to the present.
In the 1960s, Scotch'n'Soda began expanding its season by
producing shows for Homecoming. While then still heavily populated by
drama majors, S'n'S provided a theatrical outlet to students of all
disciplines and encouraged collaboration on original works. Certainly
the most notable of these original works from the 60s was the musical
"Pippin, Pippin"
by drama student
Stephen Schwartz
produced for Carnival 1967. This show was produced on Broadway just
five years later in 1972 under the shortened title "Pippin", and was
directed and choreographed by the famed
Scotch'n'Soda continued to grow in the 1970s, winning a
Broadcast Music, Inc.
award for Outstanding Variety Show in 1970 for "Something Personal" by
David Sheridan Spangler and Mark Pirolo and again in 1972 and 1973 for
"A New Day" and "Lord Have Mercy," both by Stephen M. Fechtor.
However, in a major blow to the membership the School of Drama forbade
acting majors from participating in Scotch'n'Soda productions in 1976.
Despite losing the core of the membership, the remaining members of the
club decided to press on with completely student-run, non-major theater.
Not satisfied with only doing musicals for Homecoming and Carnival, Scotch'n'Soda introduced the campus' first long-form
improvisational comedy
production in 1988. This began a 20-year period of growth and change
for the organization. In the early 1990s, they expanded to a
three-production season. In 1993, a subsidiary group that existed for
one year called
formed, which taught new skills to the
diverse membership. This led to more submissions of both student and
professionally written plays, and in 1994 the theater company began
regular theater "seasons" of three shows plus the Spring Carnival
Musical. In 1996, another subsidiary troupe formed,
The No Parking Players
, Carnegie Mellon's first improv comedy group. In 1998, Scotch'n'Soda expanded to a permanent five-production season.
Today, Scotch'n'Soda proudly produces six to seven shows each
season, ranging from full-scale musicals to intimate black box plays,
performing in a variety of spaces in the University Center and elsewhere
on campus. With a strongly committed and talented membership spanning
all six of Carnegie Mellon's undergraduate colleges and representing
over 30 different majors, Scotch'n'Soda is growing still and is well
poised to continue providing student-run theater to the Carnegie Mellon
campus community for years to come.
Board of directors
Scotch'n'Soda is governed by a board of nine directors
Each position of the board is elected annually by the general
membership. These positions (along with the students who currently
occupy them) include:
President (Sophie Vincens)
Artistic Director (J.E. Feliciano-Batista)
Vice President (Levi Chaplin-Loebell)
Managing Director (Abigail Hartless)
Technical Coordinator (
Public Relations Coordinator (Ursula Sturgeon)
Secretary (Lehan Xu)
General Membership Coordinator (
Executive Board Member (
These nine students work to contribute and act as executive producers
to each production. They also hold open weekly meetings to discuss all
issues related to the organization and hold responsibility for selecting
material for productions. They are assisted by auxiliary board members
who handle various facets of the organization and include the Webmaster,
Historian, Director of Alumni Relations, Directors of Technical,
Production, and Artistic Training, Music Liaison, and various liaisons
to the subsidiary troupes within the organization. All auxiliary board
members are represented at Board Meetings by the Vice President.
Selection of material
Scotch'n'Soda welcomes scripts presented from any student on Carnegie
Mellon's campus, though it does not have to be student-written.
Playwrights who are not Carnegie Mellon students may submit their own
material as long as it is submitted through a current CMU student. All
scripts must be approved by the board, who examine each script and
approve those that appeal to the community and membership, and are
technically feasible.  After scripts are approved, all Carnegie Mellon
students are welcome to submit a Director's Proposal to the
Scotch'n'Soda board. In a publicly held meeting, directors present their
proposals to the board.  The meeting is then closed to the public as
the board selects a specific show for production. Several weeks into
production, a Board Preview performance is held—which includes an open
rehearsal of the show, as well as reports from all members of the
technical staff on the production. It is at this Board Preview that
final approval must be given to a show before it may begin performances.
Scotch'n'Soda is funded by a specific allocation of a student
activities fee paid by all students and distributed by Carnegie Mellon's
Joint Funding Committee. Scotch'n'Soda does not profit from its
productions, nor does any member receive payment for services.
Originally, Scotch'n'Soda presented all its performances in Pittsburgh's
Carnegie Music Hall
located less than one mile from the school's campus. Eventually, due to
rental fees and time commitments, Scotch'n'Soda had to leave the large
performance hall and was transplanted into the Carnegie Mellon gym. This
was soon followed by a move into a specially constructed stage in Skibo
Ballroom, part of the Skibo University Center on Carnegie Mellon's
campus. In the summer of 1994, this building was torn down to make room
for the school's current University Center.  During the two years of
construction, Scotch'n'Soda was completely homeless and performed in
various lecture halls, the drill deck of the old student center and off
Rodef Shalom Congregation
Upon the completion of CMU's University Center, Scotch'n'Soda has
been alternating performance spaces throughout the building including:
The Connan Room, The McKenna/Peter/Wright Room, Rangos Ballroom, and
McConomy Auditorium. This has proven difficult for the organization to
this day, as access to the performance spaces is very limited, and in
most cases they can only use each performance space for a maximum of
seven consecutive days (Spring Carnival performances in 1997–99 were
able to reserve Rangos hall for two weeks). This limited amount of time
includes load-in, rehearsals, performances and strike.  In fact, unable
to find a suitable venue, the May 2001 production of Edward Albee's "The
Zoo Story" was performed outside in the Highlander Compass.
Some other venues have been used in recent years, including
Porter Hall 100, Porter Hall 125C and the Helen Wayne Rauh Studio
Theatre (in the Purnell Center). As of Fall 2016, most performances are
held in the Cohon University Center Studio Theater, a black box theater
constructed as part of the University Center expansion and opened in
The No Parking Players
No Parking Players Improv
Founded in 1996, the No Parking Players is Scotch'n'Soda Theatre's improv troupe. NPP practices
improvised theatre
of all kinds, with a focus on long form comedy. At the core of the NPP
experience are the weekly workshops on Wednesdays and Sundays, open to
the entire campus community. People of all experience levels are
welcome, including those who have never tried improv before. Most
workshops are composed of regulars and newcomers side by side. The No
Parking Players performance group (PG) also has regular shows about
twice a month, with the improvisers performing long form improv such as
Harolds and Armandos.  In 2009, the troupe began offering a class on
comedic improv for free elective credit via Carnegie Mellon's Student
College. In 2018, the troupe began an annual improv comedy festival
named "DETOUR" that brought together both college and professional
improv troupes from Pittsburgh and other locations to perform on the CMU
Tisbert Sketch Comedy
Tisbert sketch comedy
Founded during the 2011–12 academic year, Tisbert is Scotch'n'Soda's
group. Composed entirely of student-written sketches, Tisbert presents
one show per semester for a total of two shows per academic calendar;
the troupe is known for employing multiple forms of media, such as
video, in their sketches.
Acting roles for Tisbert performances are audition-only and open to any
member of the Carnegie Mellon community. Writers' meetings are also
open to the Carnegie Mellon community and are not subject to any
audition process. The troupe does not reveal what 'Tisbert' means to
non-members, and the mystery is evident by the question mark in their
logo. A subsection of Tisbert is the Tistroupe, a group of writers and
actors that act as their own performance troupe within Tisbert. In 2018,
the troupe began offering a class on writing and performing sketch
comedy for free elective credit via Carnegie Mellon's Student College.
The organization's secretary, show organizer, artistic director, and
head writer serve as the administrative board, known as the Tisboard.
New Works Coffeehouse
The NewWorks Coffeehouse logo
Previously simply called "Workshopping", the New Works Coffeehouse
embraces the ideals of the early years of Scotch'n'Soda, facilitating
the creation of new original works by its members. The subtroupe
provides members with the tools they need to get from idea to script,
and hosts readings, stagings, and productions of work by current and
former members of Scotch'n'Soda. It accepts submissions of all forms of
writing for either workshopping or production services; these services
are open to all students who are a part of the Carnegie Mellon
Community, regardless of department.
Scotch'n'Soda is currently developing an
Clan, which is devoted to keeping all past members of the organization
in touch and organizing reunion events. It also presents the Buzz Blair
Award for the Performing Arts, named after founding member Leonard
'Buzz' Blair, and given annually during Carnegie Mellon's homecoming
Numerous renowned figures in the performing arts started with Scotch'n'Soda. Some of the most acclaimed are
John-Michael Tebelak
Roger O. Hirson
Stephen Schwartz
Other performing arts alumni include:
— Director/film actor
Iris Rainer Dart
— Actress/model
— Director/producer
— Artist/playwright
— Actor/comedian
Javier Grillo-Marxuach
— Emmy-winning TV producer & writer
Franklin Heller
Bill McDonald (actor)
William H. Putch
— Emmy-winning TV director & producer
— Director/producer
Michael Patrick Walker
— Composer/lyricist
Carnegie Mellon
Pippin (musical)
Scotch'n'Soda Theatre Website
Field, William (1910).
"Abstracts from the Report of the Secretary"
. Pittsburgh, PA: Carnegie Institute. p. 114
Field, William (1911).
"Abstracts from the Report of the Secretary"
. Pittsburgh, PA: Carnegie Institute. pp.
M, J (May 23, 1932).
"Carnegie Tech's Bacchanalians Take O'Neill, Euripides, Et Al, For a Ride"
The Pittsburgh Press
. Vol. 48, no. 325. p. 12
"Pitts U. Show Award Winner"
. Vol. 82, no. 43. Nielsen Business Media, Inc. Oct 24, 1970. p. 28.
Blank, Edward (Oct 12, 1972).
"CMU's 'A New Day' Wins BMI's Top Variety Show Award"
The Pittsburgh Press
. Vol. 89, no. 110. p. 39
"Student Activities Fee"
Carnegie Mellon University
"Scotch'n'Soda Budget"
Carnegie Mellon University
. Joint Funding Committee
"Studio Theater"
Carnegie Mellon University
Hoffmaier, Ariel (20 November 2015).
"Tisbert delivers Ted Talks parody TisTalks"
Carnegie Mellon University Undergraduate Catalog.
"Student-Taught Courses"
coursecatalog.web.cmu.edu
Poettinger, Amy.
"Alumni Clan Information"
Fischgrund, Tom, ed. (1993);
Barron's Top 50: An Inside Look at America's Best Colleges
Wintermantel, Ed (8 April 1973).
"Scotch 'n' Soda... You Don't Drink It, You Join It"
The Pittsburgh Press
Schwartz, Stephen.
"What is the history of PIPPIN?"
Laird, Paul R. (2014-04-10).
The Musical Theater of Stephen Schwartz: From Godspell to Wicked and Beyond
. Scarecrow Press.
"Musical Variety Show at Carnegie Tech"
The Pittsburgh Press
. Vol. 73, no. 307. 28 April 1957. p. 5:15
Das, Bagmi (16 October 2006).
"Lost writer soon to be found on campus"
"About | Michael Patrick Walker | Composer • Lyricist"
Michael Patrick Walker