Historic Native American village in Lawrenceville, Pennsylvania
Shannopin's Town
Historic Native American village
Shannopin's Town
Former location of Shannopin's Town in Pennsylvania
Shannopin's Town
Shannopin's Town (the United States)
Show map of Pennsylvania
Show map of the United States
40.46528°N 79.96528°W
40.46528; -79.96528
Present-day Community
Lawrenceville (Pittsburgh)
Shannopin's town relative to other Native American settlements on the upper Ohio River.
Shannopin's Town,
was an 18th-century
(Delaware) town located within the site of modern-day
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Allegheny River
, approximately two miles east from its junction with the
Monongahela River
In the early 1700s, British colonial settlers began spreading into
western Pennsylvania, forcing Lenape and other American Indian tribes to
move further west, settling in the
. Shannopin's Town was one of several communities established in western Pennsylvania in the 1720s.
The town was largely abandoned during the construction of
in 1754, although a small community still existed when
General John Forbes
' troops arrived in September 1758. The community was gone by the time construction on
was started in 1759.
Establishment and location
General Map of the Middle British Colonies in America,
showing "Shanoppins T." near Fort Duquesne, just below the center of the map.
The town or village is believed to have been settled by 1730.
Modern attempts to pinpoint the exact location of Shannopin's
Town are based on settler's journals, early maps, and a burial site
which was uncovered during building excavations in 1862.
The village is believed to have been situated in what is now the city of
, roughly where
is today, below the mouth of Two Mile Run, from 30th Street to 39th
Street. At this place the Raystown Trail leading from Harris' Ferry (
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
) crossed the Allegheny River. According to
, the town was situated on the south bank of the Allegheny, nearly opposite what is now known as
, in what is now the
The town was near the western end-point of the
Kittanning Path
and at the southern terminus of the
. It was located at a convenient river crossing, within 16 miles of
, about 20 miles from
Chartier's Town
, and a day's ride from
, all prominent communities with trading posts.
describes a ford near the town: "At Shannopin's there is a fording place in very dry times and the lowest down the river."
William West reported that, on 16 June 1752, Shannopin's Town was found
to be at "Forty Degrees twenty-seven minutes North latitude,"
according to a measurement taken by
On November 15, 1753,
informed the Governor and the Speaker of the Assembly that "Shanoppin
Town" was situated about three miles above the Forks of the Monongahela.
John Hogan, who was taken prisoner at the destruction of
, and carried to
in August, 1756, stated in a deposition in June 1757 that, "at about
two miles' distance from Fort Duquesne, there was an Indian Town,
containing fifty or sixty natives, of whom twenty were able to bear
Shannopin (Shawanoppan)
Little is known about Chief Shannopin, probably the founder of
Shannopin's Town, who is also sometimes referred to as "Shawanoppan,"
"Shawanosson," and other variations of this name.
On 30 April 1730, Shannopin and five other Lenape leaders, "the
chiefs of ye Delewares at Allegaeniny, on the main road," sent a letter,
taken down by Edmund Cartledge and interpreted by
Governor Patrick Gordon
protesting against the sale of rum in Lenape communities and asking the
Governor to "prevent any further misfortunes for the future, we would
request that the Governor would please regulate the Traders, and
suppress such numbers
of them from coming into the woods; and especially from bringing such
large quantities of rum."
The letter was to explain the  death of two traders named John Hart and
John Fisher, who were accidentally shot during a hunting expedition
with a group of Lenapes in the fall of 1729. Another trader, David
Robeson, was shot and beaten during an altercation. These incidents were
blamed on intoxication by rum of those involved. Shannopin and the
other signatories wanted to limit the free trade of rum and the numbers
of people traveling from the European settlements in the east. The
traders also complained that the rum trade had caused Indians in
Shannopin's town to go into debt to the traders. Among the names signed
to the message is that of "Shawanoppan his X mark."
On 8 August 1732 Shannopin's name appears signed to a message
sent by the Delawares on the Allegheny to Deputy Governor Gordon,
promising to come to Philadelphia the following spring.
At Logstown on September 15, 1748 he made a speech to
about the recent death of Chief
(Weiser refers to him as "Shawanasson").
Shannopin died between 1748 and 1751. The exact date is unknown, but a letter from
Governor James Hamilton
dated 25 April 1751, refers to a promise Shannopin and other Lenape
leaders made, to meet with colonial authorities following the death of
Chief Allumapees in October, 1747. The letter states:
The Delawares...promised to visit their Brethren in Philadelphia
to Consult with them about a new Chief, but those men who made such
Promise, viz., Shawanapon and Others, are since dead..."
Senangel's Town
On 29 October 1731, James Le Tort and his colleague Jonas Davenport were called to testify before Governor Patrick Gordon.
Le Tort and Davenport had by then traveled to Native American
communities across western Pennsylvania and knew them well. At the time
of their examination, Davenport and Le Tort provided an estimate of the
populations of the Allegheny settlements, and the names of their chiefs,
including "Senangelstown," which has been assumed to be Shannopin's Town,
with 16 families, 50 men, and a Delaware Chief named Senangel. Not all
sources agree that this is Shannopin's Town, however. William Albert
Hunter (1952) proposes that "Senangel's Town" was a separate community
and that "Senangel" refers to Chief Sayningoe, mentioned in other colonial documents.
Visit by Peter Chartier, 1743-45
, a half-Shawnee Indian trader whose father was French-Canadian, moved to Shannopin's Town. He established a
on the Allegheny River about twenty miles upstream from the forks of the Ohio near the mouth of
, at what became
, known as Chartier's Town at the time, and Chartier's Old Town after it was abandoned in 1745.
Chartier was in conflict with the Pennsylvania authorities because he
opposed the sale of alcohol in Native American communities. In 1745 he
declared his allegiance with the French and migrated to Kentucky, along
Visit by Conrad Weiser, 1748
spent the night of August 26, 1748 at Shannopin's Town on his way to
Logstown for a meeting with chiefs of the Delaware, Shawnee, Iroquois
and Wyandot nations. Among those accompanying Weiser was
Benjamin Franklin
's illegitimate son,
William Franklin
only nineteen at the time, probably sent by his father as a part of his
education. William's journey subsequently inspired his father's keen
interest in the frontier.
Visit by Céloron de Blainville, 1749
Map of the route followed by
Pierre Joseph Céloron de Blainville
along the Ohio River in 1749, drawn by
Joseph Pierre de Bonnecamps
. The southernmost "Village de Loups" is probably Shannopin's Town.
Comte de La Galissonière
wanted to strengthen French control over the
, and in August he ordered the military commander at Detroit,
Pierre Joseph Céloron de Blainville
to travel down the Ohio River to demonstrate French dominance. Leading a
force of eight officers, six cadets, an armorer, 20 soldiers, 180
Canadians, 30 Iroquois and 25
Céloron moved down the river on a flotilla of 23 large boats and birch-bark canoes, on his
"lead plate expedition,"
burying lead plates at six locations where major tributaries entered
the Ohio and nailing copper plates bearing royal arms to trees to claim
the territory for
Céloron reached
on 6 August 1749 and arrived at Shannopin's Town the next day. He writes:
The 7th I passed by a Loup (
village in which there were only three men. They had placed a white
flag over their cabins, the rest of their people had gone to
not hazarding to remain at home. I invited these three men to come
along with me to Chiningue in order to hear what I had to say to them.
Peter Jefferson
depicting "Shannopin's T.," at the left upper margin.
Visit by Christopher Gist, 1750
Christopher Gist first visited the town in November, 1750.
Shannopin's Town was small, containing about twenty
, fifty or sixty natives and twenty warriors. It was much visited by traders.
Monday 19.—Set out early in the Morning...travelled very hard
about 20 M to a small Indian Town of the Delawares called Shannopin on
the SE Side of the River Ohio, where We rested and got Corn for our
Tuesday 20 Wednesday 21 Thursday 22 and Friday 23.—I was unwell
and stayed in this Town to recover myself; While I was here I took an
Opportunity to set my Compass privately, & took the Distance across
the River, for I understood it was dangerous to let a Compass be seen
among these Indians: The River Ohio is 76
wide at Shannopin Town: There are about twenty Families in this Town: The Land in general from
to this Place is mean stony and broken, here and there good Spots upon the Creeks and Branches but no Body of it.
Saturday 24.—Set out from Shannopin's Town, and swam our Horses
across the River Ohio, & went down the River...all the Land from
Shannopin's Town is good along the River, but the Bottoms not broad; At a
Distance from the River good Land for Farming, covered with small white
and red Oaks and tolerable level; fine Runs for Mills &c .
Meeting of the Virginia Commissioners, 1752
Washington's 1754 map showing "Shanapin" at the confluence of the Ohio
(now known as the Allegheny) and the Monongahela rivers.
showing "Shanapins" just north of Fort Duquesne, upper left of map's center.
En route to the
Logstown Treaty Conference
the Virginia Commissioners paused at Shannopin's Town (which they refer
to as "Shonassim's Town") on May 28–30, to meet with the Lenape chiefs
Shingas, who was about to be named chief of the western Lenape, may
have been living at Shannopin's Town at that time, although he did not
attend the conference in Logstown.
The commissioners were Colonel
, and Lunsford Lomax,
Christopher Gist
who served as interpreter. The commissioners were greeted by two or
three volleys of gunfire, after which they then proceeded to the river
bank above the town, where they pitched camp. They spent the following
day in conference with the chiefs, and noted that the Lenape had no
king, but were represented by Shingas and his brother Tamaqua, both of
whom, supplied with coats and hats by the commissioners, "were dressed
after the English fashion." Both wore "silver
and [had] a great deal of
about them." They made favorable impressions with the commissioners,
who informed the Lenape that they were to meet the Six Nations at
Logstown to improve relationships between the King’s representatives and
the Ohio Indians.
On 30 May the commissioners headed a short distance down river to meet with
Queen Alliquippa
They reached Logstown on 31 May.
Visit by George Washington, 1753
George Washington
and Christopher Gist met with Shingas at Shannopin's Town (which
Washington refers to as "Shanapins") on 23 November 1753, on their way
to Logstown, during Washington's journey to speak with the French
It was near Shannopin's Town, as he was returning from his
mission to the French, December 29, 1753, that Washington almost drowned
in the icy waters of the Allegheny. Washington and Gist were following "
The Piney Creek
", which meets the Allegheny River at current day
Etna, Pennsylvania
The river had not completely frozen, so Gist and Washington had to make
a raft to cross the river. As they were crossing, the raft was struck
by an ice jam and Washington was thrown into the water, but managed to
grab onto the raft with Gist pulling him aboard. Gist writes:
Saturday 29.— We set out early, got to Alleghany, made a
raft, and with much difficulty got over to an island, a little above
Shannopin's town. The Major having fallen in from off the raft, and my
fingers frostbitten, and the sun down, and very cold, we contented
ourselves to encamp upon that island. It was deep water between us and
the shore; but the cold did us some service, for in the morning it was
frozen hard enough for us to pass over on the ice.
They spent the night on Wainwright's Island, an island which has now
been absorbed into the southern shore of the Allegheny River.
The next day they went to the trading house of
at the mouth of
, staying overnight and continuing on the next day to Shannopin's Town.
in November, 1753, Lewis Montour reported to
were living in Shannopin's Town.
French military landing at Shannopin's Town, 1754
of the route General Forbes' forces took to reach Fort Duquesne in
September, 1758. Shannopin's Town is indicated at the far left.
Newly-constructed Fort Pitt in 1759. The abandoned remains of Shannopin's Town can be seen on the riverbank to the far left.
In January, 1754 British soldiers under the command of
began construction of
Fort Prince George
at the confluence of the Ohio and the Monongahela rivers, about two
miles west of Shannopin's Town. On 4 March 1754, a French detachment
Michel Maray de La Chauvignerie
discovered the fort, still under construction.
In April, a force of more than 500 men under the command of Captain
Claude-Pierre Pécaudy de Contrecœur
sailed down the Allegheny River from Venango, landing at Shannopin's Town.
On 18 April 1754, the French Commander sent a captain, a drummer and an
interpreter to present Ensign Edward Ward, the acting commander, with a
summons stating that the French Army intended to lay siege to the fort,
and that the British had one hour to leave. The British garrison of
about forty men withdrew, and the French seized the fort and razed it to
Shannopin's Town was largely abandoned during the construction of
Fort Duquesne, but a small community still existed when John Hogan, a
British prisoner, observed it in August, 1756.
In 1758, General Forbes' troops passed through it and observed the decapitated bodies of Scottish highlanders of the
77th Regiment of Foot (Montgomerie's Highlanders)
who had been killed on 14 September at the
Battle of Fort Duquesne
Major James Grant
was defeated. The town had vanished by the time construction of Fort Pitt was begun in 1759.
Archaeological investigations
Archaeological work in the Pittsburgh area sponsored by the
Carnegie Museum of Natural History
has uncovered relatively little from the 18th century, due to
of sites by construction and industry. A Native American burial site
was uncovered during construction on 31st Street in 1862, but no other
information was recorded.
Some work in the Fort Pitt area has uncovered features including circular house-hearths or fire pits,
, cellars, fence lines, remains of fortifications, stone foundations, trash pits,
, and parts of walls. Artifacts include prehistoric and historic ceramics,
, glass, glass trade beads, gunflints, metal,
, and textiles.
History of Pennsylvania
History of Pittsburgh
French and Indian War
Shaun Slifer, "The Land that Held the Lenape Settlement of Shannopintown," at
Compass Roses: Maps by Artists
Shannopin's Town,
Ohio History Central
"Shannopin Town,"
Magical History Tour
Shannopin's Town
Ohio History Central,
Ohio Historical Society
Chester Hale Sipe, "The Principal Indian Towns of Western Pennsylvania,"
Western Pennsylvania Historical Magazine,
v. 13, no. 2; April 1, 1930; pp. 104-122
Indian Wars of Pennsylvania : an account of the Indian events, in
Pennsylvania, of the French and Indian war, Pontiac's war, Lord
Dunmore's war, the revolutionary war, and the Indian uprising from 1789
to 1795; tragedies of the Pennsylvania frontier based primarily on the
Penna. archives and colonial records,
Harrisburg, PA: The Telegraph Press,  1929.
Shaun Slifer, "The Land that Held the Lenape Settlement of Shannopintown," at
Compass Roses: Maps by Artists
Charles Augustus Hanna,
The Wilderness Trail: Or, The Ventures and Adventures of the Pennsylvania Traders on the Allegheny Path,
Volume 1, Putnam's sons, 1911
William M. Darlington, ed.
Christopher Gist's Journals, with Historical, Geographical and Ethnological Notes and Biographies of His Contemporaries,
Pittsburgh, J. R. Weldin & Co., 1893; Notes to Christopher Gist's Journal of 1750-1
"Analysis of Map of the Middle Colonies," by Lewis Evans, 1775, p. 25, quoted in
Hodge, Frederick Webb,
Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico,
The Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology Handbook of American Indians. Reprint of 1912 edition. Volume 3 N-S.
George P. Donehoo,
Pennsylvania: A History,
Volume 2, Lewis historical publishing Company, Incorporated, 1926
Samuel Hazard, ed.
Colonial Records of Pennsylvania,
Volume 5. T. Fenn & Company, 1851
George P. Donehoo, "The Point: 'Diondega,'" excerpted from
A History of the Indian Villages and Place Names in Pennsylvania with Numerous Historical Notes and References,
Telegraph Press, 1928
Peoples of the River Valleys: The Odyssey of the Delaware Indians.
University of Pennsylvania Press, Incorporated, 2013.
Pennsylvania Archives,
Vol. I, Philadelphia: Joseph Severns, 1851
Pugh, Edwin V., Mulkearn, Lois.
A Traveler's Guide to Historic Western Pennsylvania.
University of Pittsburgh Press, 1954.
Weiser's journal of a tour to the Ohio, August 11-October 2, 1748,"
HathiTrust Digital Library, University of Wisconsin, Madison
Charles Augustus Hanna,
The Wilderness Trail: Or, The Ventures and Adventures of the Pennsylvania Traders on the Allegheny Path,
Volume 2, Putnam's sons, 1911
Chance, Hilda, Austin N. Hungerford, Franklin Ellis, and Peck & Richards Everts,
of that part of the Susquehanna and Juniata Valleys: embraced in the
counties of Mifflin, Juniata, Perry, Union and Snyder, in the
commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Philadelphia: Everts, Peck & Richards, 1886
William A. Hunter, "Traders on the Ohio, 1730,"
Western Pennsylvania Historical Magazine,
35: 1952 85-92.
Alden T. Vaughan, ed.
Early American Indian documents: treaties and laws, 1607-1789,
Vol 2. "Pennsylvania treaties, 1737-1756," edited by Donald H. Kent. University Publications of America, 1979.
Borough of Tarentum
Boyd Crumrine, Franklin Ellis, and Austin N. Hungerford,
History of Washington County, Pennsylvania: with biographical sketches of many of its pioneers and prominent men,
Philadelphia: H.L. Everts & Co., 1882.
Volwiler, Albert T.
George Croghan and the Westward Movement, 1741–1782.
Cleveland: The Arthur H. Clark Company, 1926
O. H. Marshall, "De Celoron's Expedition to the Ohio in 1749,
Magazine of American History,
March, 1878, p. 146.
"Celeron de Bienville"
Ohio History Central
Ohio Historical Society
William M. Darlington, ed.
Christopher Gist's Journals, with Historical, Geographical and Ethnological Notes and Biographies of His Contemporaries,
First Journal, October, 31, 1750 to May 19, 1751. Pittsburgh, J. R. Weldin & Co., 1893
Mulkearn, Lois. "Why the Treaty of Logstown, 1752."
The Virginia Magazine of History and Biography
vol 59, no. 1 (1951): 3-20. Accessed March 22, 2021
"The Treaty of Logg's Town, 1752."
Virginia Magazine of History and Biography,
vol. 13, 1906; Pp 154–174.
Kenneth P. Bailey,
The Ohio Company of Virginia and the Westward Movement, 1748-1792: A chapter in the History of the Colonial Frontier,
University of California at Los Angeles. The Arthur H. Clark Co., Glendale, California, 1939
George Washington, "Journey to the French Commandant: Narrative," Founders Online, National Archives. Original source:
The Diaries of George Washington,
vol. 1, 11 March 1748 – 13 November 1765, ed. Donald Jackson. Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1976, pp. 130–161.
William M. Darlington, ed.
Christopher Gist's Journals, with Historical, Geographical and Ethnological Notes and Biographies of His Contemporaries,
Pittsburgh, J. R. Weldin & Co., 1893; Second Journal - November 4,
1751 to March 29, 1752, Third Journal - November 15, 1753 to January 4,
"Is Washington's Landing so named because "Old Wooden Teeth" really landed there?"
Donehoo, George P.
A History of the Indian Villages and Place Names in Pennsylvania with Numerous Historical Notes and References.
Papamoa Press, 2019.
Cherry, Jason A.
Pittsburgh's Lost Outpost: Captain Trent's Fort.
Charleston, SC: HISTORY Press, 2019.
PAPIERS CONTRECOEUR Le Conflit Angelo - Francias Sur L' Ohio De 1745 a 1756.
English translation of documents in the Quebec Seminary by Donald Kent, 1952
Charles W. Dahlinger, "The Marquis Duquesne, Sieur de Menneville, Founder of the City of Pittsburgh," part 2,
Western Pennsylvania Historical Magazine,
15, August 1932
"From Benjamin Franklin to Richard Partridge, 8 May 1754,"
Founders Online,
National Archives,
The Papers of Benjamin Franklin,
vol. 5, July 1, 1753, through March 31, 1755, ed. Leonard W. Labaree. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1962, pp. 272–275.
"Shannopin Town,"
Magical History Tour,
Posted on November 5, 2019
Grumet, Robert Steven, Rogers, Jerry, Jennings, Francis.
Contact: Indian People and Colonists in Today's Northeastern United
States in the Sixteenth Through Eighteenth Centuries.
Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1995.
M. Lombardi et al, "Archaeological Survey of the Lower Hill
Redevelopment Project, City of Pittsburgh, Allegheny County,
Pennsylvania," Report prepared for the Sports and Exhibition Authority
of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County by Michael Baker Jr., Inc., June 2013