Federally funded research center in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States
Software Engineering Institute
November 14, 1984
US$584 million for 2011–2015
Field of research
Software engineering
Paul D. Nielsen
4500 Fifth Avenue
40.4466°N 79.9500°W
40.4466; -79.9500
Department of Defense
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering
Operating agency
Carnegie Mellon University
Location in Pittsburgh
Software Engineering Institute
federally funded research and development center
, United States. Founded in 1984, the institute is now sponsored by the
United States Department of Defense
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering
, and administrated by
Carnegie Mellon University
The activities of the institute cover
software assurance
software engineering
and acquisition, and component capabilities critical to the United States Department of Defense.
The Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering Institute is a
federally funded research and development center
headquartered on the campus of
Carnegie Mellon University
. The SEI also has offices in
Arlington County, Virginia
, California. The SEI operates with major funding from the
U.S. Department of Defense
. The SEI also works with industry and academia through research collaborations.
On November 14, 1984, the U.S. Department of Defense elected
Carnegie Mellon University as the host site of the Software Engineering
The institute was founded with an initial allocation of $6 million, with
another $97 million to be allocated in the subsequent five years. The
SEI's contract with the Department of Defense is subject to review and
renewal every five years.
SEI focuses on several technical directions:
software engineering
critical component capabilities
The SEI defines specific initiatives aimed at improving organizations' software engineering capabilities.
Management practices
Organizations need to effectively manage the acquisition,
development, and evolution (ADE) of software-intensive systems. Success
in software engineering management practices helps organizations predict
and control quality, schedule, cost, cycle time, and productivity. The
best-known example of SEI  in management practices is the SEI's
Capability Maturity Model (CMM)
for Software (now
Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI)
The CMMI approach consists of models, appraisal methods, and training
courses that have been proven to improve process performance. In 2006,
Version 1.2 of the CMMI Product Suite included the release of CMMI for
Development. CMMI for Development was the first of three constellations
defined in Version 1.2: the others include CMMI for Acquisition and CMMI
for Services. The CMMI for Services constellation was released in
February 2009. Another management practice developed by CERT, which is
part of the SEI, is the Resilience Management Model (CERT-RMM). The
CERT-RMM is a capability model for operational resilience management.
Version 1.0 of the Resilience Management Model was released in May 2010.
Engineering practices
SEI work in engineering practices increases the ability of software engineers to analyze, predict, and control selected
functional and non-functional properties of software systems. Key SEI tools and methods include the SEI
Architecture Tradeoff Analysis Method
(ATAM) method, the SEI Framework for Software Product Line Practice, and the SEI Service Migration and Reuse Technique (SMART).
The SEI is also the home of the
(CERT Coordination Center), a federally funded computer security
organization. The SEI CERT Program's primary goals are to ensure that
appropriate technology and systems-management practices are used to
resist attacks on networked systems and to limit damage and ensure
continuity of critical services in spite of successful attacks,
accidents, or failures. The SEI CERT program is working with
to produce the Build Security In (BSI) website, which provides guidelines for building security into every phase of the
software development lifecycle
. The SEI has also conducted research on insider threats and
computer forensics
. Results of this research and other information now populate the CERT Virtual Training Environment.
Special programs
SEI Partner Network
The SEI Partner Network helps the SEI disseminate software
engineering best practices. Organizations and individuals in the SEI
Partner Network are selected, trained, and licensed by the SEI to
deliver authentic SEI services, which include courses, consulting
methods, and management processes.  The network currently consists of
nearly 250 partner organizations worldwide.
The SEI sponsors national and international conferences, workshops,
and user-group meetings. Other events cover subjects including the
acquisition of software-intensive systems,
commercial off-the-shelf
(COTS)-based systems, network security and survivability, software process research,
software product lines
, CMMI, and the SEI Team Software Process.
Education and training
Main facility on Fifth Avenue in Pittsburgh.
SEI courses are currently offered at the SEI's locations in the
United States and Europe. In addition, using licensed course materials,
SEI Partners train individuals.
Membership program
The SEI Membership Program helps the software engineering community
to network. SEI Members include small business owners, software and
systems programmers, CEOs, directors, and managers from both Fortune 500
companies and government organizations.
Affiliate program
Through the SEI Affiliate Program, organizations place technical
experts with the SEI for periods ranging from 12 months to four years.
Affiliates currently are working on projects with the SEI to identify,
develop, and demonstrate improved software engineering practices.
Software Process Achievement award program
In order to recognize outstanding achievements in improving an
organization's ability to create and evolve software-dependent systems,
IEEE Computer Society
Software Process Achievement Award
In addition to rewarding excellence, the purpose of this award is to
foster continuous advancement in the practice of software engineering
and to disseminate insights, experiences, and proven practices
throughout the relevant research and practitioner communities.
Research and publications
The SEI publishes reports that offer new technical information about
software engineering topics, whether theoretical or applied. The SEI
also publishes books on
software engineering
for industry, government and military applications and practices.
In addition, the SEI offers public courses, workshops, and
conferences in process improvement, software architecture and product
lines, and security.
Further information:
CERT Coordination Center § Operation Onymous
Operation Onymous § Tor 0-day exploit
Tor (network) § Relay early attack
On November 11, 2015,
Roger Dingledine
the Tor Project
the Software Engineering Institute of aiding the
Federal Bureau of Investigation
in uncovering the identities of users of the
.  Later prosecution showed the hack was paid for by the Department of Defense and subpoenaed by the FBI.
Focus of progressive protests
SEI has been an occasional site of
anti-war movement
many of which have been organized by
Pittsburgh's Thomas Merton Center
Popular culture
The tunnel in SEI served as the entrance to Blackgate Prison in The Dark Knight Rises.
SEI served as the Blackgate Prison in the 2012 film
The Dark Knight Rises
Software engineer
Personal software process
Team software process
Linda Hutz Pesante (January 1, 2003). Anthony Ralston; Edwin D. Reilly (eds.).
"Software engineering institute (SEI)"
Encyclopedia of Computer Science
, West Sussex, UK:
John Wiley and Sons Ltd.
(1) The institute was competitively awarded to
Carnegie Mellon
in December 1984 by the
US Department of Defense
(DoD) to improve the state of the practice of software engineering. ...
(2) the SEI moves mature solutions of proven value into widespread use;
examples include the
Capability Maturity Model
(CMM) ... (3) bring engineering insight and management discipline to the practice of software engineering.
"Master Government List of Federally Funded R&D Centers | NCSES | NSF"
from the original on December 17, 2020
"2015 Year in Review"
Software Engineering Institute
Carnegie Mellon University
"Work With Us Page"
from the original on March 8, 2021
Software Process Award program
September 29, 2017, at the
Wayback Machine
"Did the FBI Pay a University to Attack Tor Users?"
from the original on March 8, 2021
"Confirmed: Carnegie Mellon University Attacked Tor, Was Subpoenaed By Feds"
. February 24, 2016.
from the original on March 28, 2019
"Democracy Now! | Carnegie Military University : How the Pentagon Funds Universities to Contribute to War"
from the original on September 4, 2020
"The Tartan Online : Pittsburgh walks for peace"
from the original on December 5, 2018
"1,200 demonstrate against Iraq War in Oakland"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. March 24, 2007.
from the original on June 29, 2011
Further reading
Fenton, Edwin (2000).
Carnegie Mellon 1900–2000: A Centennial History
Carnegie Mellon University Press
Official website