Outdoor sculpture by Jonathan Borofsky
Walking to the Sky
Jonathan Borofsky
Nasher Sculpture Center
Walking to the Sky
Jonathan Borofsky
.  The original was installed at
Rockefeller Center
in the fall of 2004 before being moved to the
Nasher Sculpture Center
in 2005. A copy is installed on the campus of
Carnegie Mellon University
Another copy is installed in front of the Kiturami Homsys Co. building in Hwagok-dong, Gangseo-gu,
The seven-ton work depicts a little girl, a businesswoman, a
young man, and several others scaling a soaring 100-foot-tall stainless
steel pole. Three people are looking upward from the base of the pole,
which points to the east at a 75-degree angle.
A similar work by Borofsky, entitled "Woman Walking to the Sky",
is installed in the center of Strasbourg, France, near the memorial for
the synagogue that was destroyed by the Nazi occupiers of the city in
The piece was inspired by a story that Borofsky's father used to
tell him when he was a child about a friendly giant who lived in the
sky. In each tale, father and son would travel up to the sky to talk to
the giant about what needed to be done for everyone back on earth. The
artist says the sculpture is "a celebration of the human potential for
discovering who we are and where we need to go."
Carnegie Mellon University replica
Carnegie Mellon installed
Walking to the Sky
its campus in front of Warner Hall just off Forbes Avenue. The sculpture
was a gift from CMU Trustee Jill Gansman Kraus (A'74) and her husband,
Peter Kraus, of
The sculpture generated controversy among the student body for its
appearance, the choice of location, and the lack of campus involvement
in selecting and siting the piece. The campus newspaper described it as
"an eyesore" and "a huge phallus" while others have expressed
displeasure at its location as one of the first things seen of the
campus from Forbes Avenue. Due to apparent structural instability, the
sculpture had to be replaced in October 2009.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to
Walking to the Sky
Lowry, Patricia (March 15, 2006).
"CMU crafts a compromise on artist's controversial sculpture"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"Official Seoul City Tourism Art Exhibition Calendar"
. Archived from
on December 27, 2008
"Jonathan Borofsky, Woman Walking to the Sky"
Garcia, Cathy Rose A. (October 31, 2009).
"Walk to the Sky With Jonathan Borofsky"
Jones, Aliesha (September 28, 2009).
"Walking to the Sky Art Excavated"