About Carnegie Mellon | Carnegie Mellon University
Skip to main content
About Carnegie Mellon
Don’t Envision the Future, Invent It Every Day
At Carnegie Mellon University, academic and research excellence isn't just what we strive for — it's the uncompromising standard. Our entrepreneurial spirit means no pursuit is too complex, and no question is too unconventional to explore.
Whether pioneering groundbreaking brain research, creating visionary art that challenges perspectives or developing next-generation technologies like self-driving cars, we go all in on big ideas that move the world forward. See how we transform bold ideas into extraordinary impact that changes everything.
CMU Stands Apart
Business Analytics Graduate Program
U.S. News & World Report
Learn more about the Business Analytics Graduate Program
Artificial Intelligence Program
U.S. News & World Report
Learn more about the Artificial Intelligence Program
World’s Top Drama School
The Hollywood Reporter
Learn more about the School of Drama
Who We Are and What We Do
CMU fosters a community of fearless trailblazers united by a shared passion for innovation and excellence. Learn about our strategic partnerships and global presence.
Vision, Mission and Values
Explore CMU’s key initiatives and values, from our strategic plan to diversity. Learn more about our history and what makes us SO CMU.
Meet our Board of Trustees, president, senior administration members and deans.
Our Regional Impact
Explore our partnerships with Pittsburgh and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to create lasting economic and community change.
Carnegie Mellon is a university without borders, with campuses in Pittsburgh, Silicon Valley, Qatar and Africa. Our collaborative efforts empower researchers in solving global issues.
CMU Population by the Numbers
students representing 132+ countries
faculty representing 63+ countries
alumni representing 150+ countries
The Latest at CMU
Intergenerational Art Builds Bridges to Community Through SURF Project
Teaching a Robot To Hang a T-shirt Starts With Data
Alcoholism Study Grants SURF Student Entry Point Into Psychology Research
Rales Fellow Erick Cohen Helps Rethink the Role of Data
CMU Researchers Use AI To Turn Everyday Objects Into Proactive Assistants
CMU Math Student Charts a New Path with Rubik’s Cubes