Events in Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh City Paper
Promoted Events
First Friday 5Rhythms® Waves
Events in Pittsburgh
Submit an Event
Pandemic : Global Dancehall, Cumbia, Bhangra, Balkan Bass
First Friday of every month, 9:30 p.m. and Third Saturday of every month, 9:30 p.m.
4104 Penn Ave., Pittsburgh
2026 Greater Pittsburgh 29Th Lunar New Year Fair ＆Show
Sat., Feb. 21, 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens
1 Schenley Park, Pittsburgh
Join us for the 29th Greater Pittsburgh Lunar New Year Celebration at Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens on February 21, 2026! This joyful cultural event celebrates renewal, unity, and green innovation. Enjoy traditional music, dance, and a variety of fun activities perfect for families and friends. Local cultural and community groups will bring vibrant performances and showcases, highlighting Pittsburgh’s diverse communities. Explore Phipps’ beautiful gardens while experiencing festive displays, authentic arts, and shared traditions. A lively and family-friendly celebration awaits!
2026 Greater Pittsburgh 29Th Lunar New Year Fair ＆ Show
Sat., Feb. 21, 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens
1 Schenley Park, Pittsburgh
Join us on February 21, 2026, at Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens for the 29th Greater Pittsburgh Lunar New Year Celebration! This year’s theme, Renewal, Unity, and Green Innovation, invites you to enjoy vibrant cultural performances, including Dragon & Lion Dance, Fashion Dance, African Dance, Ballet, and more. While exploring the beautiful gardens, you’ll also have the chance to engage with innovative immersive installations, actively participating in the cultural celebration. Over 10 local community groups will showcase Pittsburgh’s rich cultural diversity. Come celebrate with us in this exciting, creative, and festive event as we usher in the Lunar New Year!
Cupid's Undie Run
Sat., Feb. 21, 12-4 p.m.
211 North Shore Dr., Pittsburgh
THE PANTLESS PARTY WITH A PURPOSE!
Run a ‘Mile(ish)' in Your Undies, Because Kicking NF's Butt is Worth the Chilly Cheeks
Every February, thousands of undie runners in cities across the U.S. come together, whether it be in-person or virtually, to support those affected by NF, a group of genetic conditions that cause tumors to grow on nerves throughout the body.
Cupid’s Undie Run kicks off with drinking and dancing, then we jog it out with a mile(ish) run and end it all with an epic dance party!
WHEN: FEBRUARY 21, 2026
TIME: 12PM – 4PM
(RUN STARTS AT 2PM)
The Nied's Hotel Band
Sat., Feb. 21, 8-11 p.m.
The Tonidale Pub
7001 Steubenville Pike, Oakdale
The Tonidale Pub and Encore Concerts proudly present The Nied's Hotel Band - Pittsburgh's Rock Powerhouse - live in concert on Saturday, February 21, 2026. Event entry begins at 6:30 PM and the show will begin at 8:00 PM. Advance tickets are available now at Etix.com or via the link on this listing. Any remaining tickets will be available for purchase at the door on the day of the show, beginning at the time of entry. Cash and most electronic forms of payment are accepted at this venue. Seating is available on a first-come, first-served basis beginning at the time
Sean Mc + Dj Thermos
First and Third Saturday of every month
4016 Butler Street, Pittsburgh
A Reverence for Life
First and Third Saturday of every month
Rachel Carson Homestead
613 Marion Ave., Springdale
Photos & artifacts of her life & work. Docent-led tours.
sean mc and dj thermos
First and Third Saturday of every month
4016 Butler Street, Pittsburgh
90s dance party.
Noche Latina-Third Saturday
Third Saturday of every month, 9:15 p.m.-1:30 a.m.
Los Sabrosos Dance Co.
4909 Penn Ave., Pittsburgh
Dance the night away to Salsa, Bachata, Zouk, Kizomba, & more!
Every First and Third Saturday of the Month!
9:15pm – Mini-Lesson
9:30pm – 1:00am DANCING!
Mini-Lesson + Social: $15
Only Social: $10
Pittsburgh, PA 15224
At the juncture of Lawrenceville, Garfield, & Friendship neighborhoods!
On the same side as UPMC Children’s Hospital.
Free parking on the street (Penn Ave) and all the neighborhood streets.
BYOA, alcohol only. Los Sabrosos Dance Co. has a cash bar with non-alcoholic beverages on the premises. Free water and cups available.
Third Saturday of every month, 10 p.m.
5121 Butler St., Pittsburgh
DJ Huck Finn, DJ Kelly Fasterchild.
Saturday Night Reader, Shadyside!
Saturdays, 7-10 a.m.
Amazing Books & Records
5430 Walnut Street, Pittsburgh
Food & Drink Event
Enjoy a free beer or n/a sparkling water while you browse Pittsburgh's largest and best selection of used books and records together, alongside other book and music lovers. Always get a free used book or record, priced up to $10, with every 3 items that you buy.
Donation-Based Yoga
Saturdays, Sundays, 7-7:45 a.m.
Frick Park Red Clay Tennis Courts
800 S. Braddock Ave., Pittsburgh
Join the Frick Park Clay Tennis Court Club and The Om Lounge for donation based (socially distanced) yoga every Saturday and Sunday morning at 7 AM, weather-permitting. Donations are accepted via credit/debit card, but are not required for participation.  No pre-registration is required at this time. Participants must wear a mask while not on their mat. Please bring your own mat, towel, water, and any other props. Class is all levels and open to the public. Donations support the Frick Park Clay Court Tennis Club.
Pittsburgh Scavenger Hunt: Pittsburgh’s Strength
Ongoing, 8-10 a.m.
Let's Roam Customer Support
414 Grant St, Pittsburgh, PA 15219, USA, Pittsburgh
Where three rivers meet, you'll find Pennsylvania's great Steel Town. On this fun-filled Pittsburgh scavenger hunt, make a loop around downtown in search of storied buildings, great green spaces, and wondrous sculptures.
Uncover this city's best-kept secrets and make your own history on this scavenger hunt in Pittsburgh!
Some of what you'll see: Fulton Building, Pittsburgh Market Square, Kaufmann Building
Explore The City:
Find the best sights in your city with your group and answer questions that can only be found in person hidden on plaques, statues, art, and more.
Photo Challenges and Activities:
Each person will have an interactiv
Beginner Tai Chi Classes
Saturdays, 9 a.m.
Friends Meeting House
4836 Ellsworth Ave., Pittsburgh
Summer Camp: Let's Get Cultured!
Ongoing, 9 a.m.-3 p.m.
The Citizen Science Lab
1699 Washington Road Suite 200, Pittsburgh
Your young scientist will explore the fascinating world of microorganisms and cultures! They'll get hands-on with growing and studying bacteria and fungi in this exciting lab-based camp.
All Summer Campers receive a free TCSL t-shirt!
https://www.thecitizensciencelab.org/programs/summer-camps
Students are responsible for bringing their own lunch. We may have fridge or microwave available upon request. Please do not bring any peanut butter due to allergy concerns.
Tai Chi at Thrive on Health
Saturdays, 10-11:15 a.m. and Tuesdays, 7-8:15 p.m.
Thrive on Health
730 Brookline Boulevard, PIttsburgh
Thrive on Health presents Tai Chi with nationally ranked practitioner, Christopher Johns. Come and practice time-tested skills and philosophies for internal and external harmony and self-defense. Learn how to approach challenges calmly, rationally, and with total self-assurance, and and find out why these are the keys to true strength and health.
Saturday morning kids art class
Saturdays, 10-11 a.m.
Uncle Dave's Art Studio
4135 Leechburg Rd, Pittsburgh
🎨 Calling all budding young artists! Let your child's creativity soar with our exciting kids art class 🌟 They'll get to paint their very own masterpiece on an 8x10 canvas using high-quality acrylic paint 🎉 All supplies are included, so all they need to bring is their imagination! Don't miss out on this opportunity to inspire and nurture their artistic talents. Sign up today! 🎉
Puzzling Adventures Scavenger Hunt
Ongoing, 10 a.m.-8 p.m.
Puzzling Adventures Start & Finish Location
629 Smithfield St, Pittsburgh
$39.95 with $10 EVENTPASS - price per team
Consistently rated the best local scavenger hunt since 2016!
Puzzling Adventures are a cross between a scavenger hunt, an adventure race, and an informative self-guided walking tour. Each adventure consists of a series of locations that you are guided to where you are required to answer a question or solve a puzzle to receive your next instruction. Compete as a group, individually or create multiple teams and race each other.
Enter the code EVENTPASS on the payment page for a $10 discount!
Sahaja Meditation
Saturdays, 11 a.m.-12 p.m.
Carnegie Library, Allegheny
1230 Federal St., Pittsburgh
Sahaja Meditation is a simple method that lets you tap into the natural energy lying deep within you. Learn to use the power of your own inner energy to neutralize stress, get back into balance, improve your physical, mental, and emotional health, and realize true inner peace and joy. You can do it anywhere and anytime, it costs nothing and is available to all people regardless of our nationality, race, faith, or age. Find us on our Pittsburgh Sahaja Meditation Meetup group.
Drop-In Beginner Knitting & Knitting Help
Saturdays, 12-4 p.m.
Steel City Fiber Collective
5817 Ellsworth Avenue, PITTSBURGH
Always wanted to learn to knit? We'll get you started. We even Include needles and yarn.
Already know how to knit, but are stuck in your project?  We'll happily help get you through it.
Spellbound Escape Room
Ongoing, 12-9 p.m.
60 Minute Missions Escape Room
116 E Pittsburgh Street, Lower Level, Greensburg
Becoming a wizard isn’t easy. You’ve traveled to the magic school and taken the admissions exam, but didn’t pass. As a result, a horrible curse has been placed on you to ensure you don’t attempt further magic as a muggle.
Your train ride home has been summoned, but the door to the wizarding world is within reach. Can you reverse the curse and prove that you have the skills to join the wizarding school before your ride home arrives?
Wigle Whiskey Barrelhouse Tours
Saturdays, 12:30 & 2 p.m.
Wigle Whiskey Barrel House
1055 Spring Garden Ave., Pittsburgh
South Hills Scrabble Club
Saturdays, 1-3 p.m.
Mount Lebanon Public Library
16 Castle Shannon Boulevard, Mt. Lebanon
Free Scrabble games, all levels.
Saturday Salsa for Beginners
Saturdays, 1:30-2:30 p.m.
Crossbody Dance and Movement
422 Wood Street, PITTSBURGH
If you have NEVER danced salsa before, or have very little experience dancing salsa, this is where you start.
Even if you think you have two left feet… we will get you dancing!
Pinball Perfection
Fridays, Saturdays
Pinball Perfection
231 Perry Hwy, West View
Pinball museum & players club.
West Overton Barn & Museum
Fridays, Saturdays
West Overton Barn & Museum
109 West Overton Road, Scottdale
Learn about distilling & coke-making in this pre-Civil War industrial village.
Wigle Whiskey Public Tours
2401 Smallman St., Pittsburgh
Soldiers & Sailors Memorial Hall
Mondays-Saturdays
Soldiers & Sailors Memorial Hall
4141 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh
Military museum dedicated to honoring military service members since the Civil War through artifacts & personal mementos.
Kerr Memorial Museum
Kerr Memorial Museum
402 Delaware Avenue, Oakmont
Tours of a restored 19th-century, middle-class home.
Permanent collection of European Art
Tuesdays-Sundays
The Frick Pittsburgh
7227 Reynolds Street, Pittsburgh