THE CITY OF PITTSBURGH
Recycling & Refuse
Park Shelter Rental
Permits & Licenses
Parks and Recreation
City Meeting Hub
Apply for Dog License
Trash Collection Schedule
Tax & Real Estate
Bid Opportunities
City Press Releases
Road Maintenance
Published on February 18, 2026
Construction to Begin on the Panther Hollow Bridge in Oakland
Construction to Begin on the Panther Hollow Bridge in Oakland
Read Full Story
Published on February 17, 2026
Demolition Blitz in Hilltop Neighborhoods Over Next Several Weeks
Mayor O’Connor Announces Demolition Blitz in Hilltop Neighborhoods Over Next Several Weeks
Read Full Story
Published on February 13, 2026
Traffic Signal Upgrade at Fifth Avenue and Dithridge Street
City Receives Grant for Traffic Signal Upgrade at Fifth Avenue and Dithridge Street
Read Full Story
Published on February 13, 2026
Department of Public Works to do a Citywide Pothole Blitz Tomorrow
After this week’s thaw resulted in potholes around the city, the Department of Public Works crews will be out for a pothole blitz to patch them on Saturday, February 14, 2026.
Read Full Story
No results found. Please try again later.
View More Events
PWSA Water Bill
Pittsburgh Regional Transit
Our 2,600 employees operate, maintain and support bus, light rail, incline and paratransit services to provide more than 60 million rides a year.
Learn about current City Department projects, programs, and initiatives.
311 Response Center
Contact 311 for non-emergency City of Pittsburgh concerns or questions. Visit 311 to submit a Service Request.
Pittsburgh Parking Authority
Have questions about a ticket you just received or inquiring about a job opening? Click on the corresponding links below to find out what your options are.
Traffic offenses, Non-traffic summary offenses, Violations of City of Pittsburgh ordinances, Criminal cases, Preliminary hearings.
In 2019, Mayor Peduto announced OneStopPGH: a website where residents can apply, pay for, and receive business licenses and permits, upload development plans, and track violation notices. Now you can navigate the development process from home, work, or on the go.
Duquesne Light Company
City of Pittsburgh's electricity company, Duquesne Light maintains the poles and wires, responds in an emergency and issues your bill.