Restaurants & Culinary
Global cuisine spanning 90 unique neighborhoods
Pittsburgh's fantastic food scene is continually getting recognized in national and international
In our City of Multitudes, you'll find globe-spanning cuisine with inspired menus, unique locations and awarded chefs to suit all palates. Choose from casual family spots, chef-owned concepts, romantic eateries with a view, tableside jazz hotspots, hidden gems, late-night bites or convenient take-out.
Plan your culinary adventure:
Seasonal Recommendations
Pittsburgh Craft Beer Winter Warmers
Warm up with Pittsburgh's local craft brews
Pittsburgh Winter Beerfest
Experience the annual Pittsburgh Winter Beerfest with our guide on the official dates, craft brew-filled activities, and more.
Winter Restaurant Week
Experience incredible deals and flavors at some of Pittsburgh’s finest establishments during the Winter Restaurant Week.
Food and fun just go together and, in Pittsburgh, food is often the reason for…
21 Foods You Can Only Get in Pittsburgh
When you're in Pittsburgh, make sure you eat like the locals do.
Pittsburgh: A Foodie Destination
Pittsburgh’s award-winning food is a huge draw for visitors, and it is continually getting recognized…
Food at the Confluence
Nestled in the Allegheny Mountain range, at the confluence of the Monongahela, Allegheny and Ohio…
2025 Guide to Pittsburgh Farmers Markets
Shop fresh, locally-grown foods at these Pittsburgh farmers markets
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Cheers to a city that is full of craft beer culture.
Wineries & Distilleries
Discover and explore Pittsburgh's unique drinking history!
Bars & Nightlife
When the sun goes down, the fun continues in Pittsburgh!
Pittsburgh Food Stories
21 Foods You Can Only Get in Pittsburgh
When you're in Pittsburgh, make sure you eat like the locals do.
Top Pierogi Places in Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh is home to some of the best pierogi joints in the country, so make sure to check out a…
A Taste of Pittsburgh’s Food Scene
Red hot restaurants to add to your next visit to Pittsburgh
Best Food at PNC Park
​Spending the day watching baseball at PNC Park is a real treat.
Ultimate Guide to Pittsburgh’s Can’t-Miss Food Trucks
Pittsburgh has plenty of awesome food trucks that can be found at festivals and events all throughout the city, or…
Insider’s Guide: Pittsburgh Vegan Restaurants & Vegetable Forward Menus
Your guide to award-winning vegan Pittsburgh restaurants, bakeries, sweets and more.
Japanese Restaurants in Pittsburgh
Enjoy a variety of Japanese restaurants in Pittsburgh, indulging in traditional flavors, modern twists, and a blend of different cuisines.
30 Best Italian Restaurants in Pittsburgh
Discover some of the best Italian restaurants in Pittsburgh with delicious food, refreshing drinks, cozy seating, and more.
What to Eat at Kennywood
Fuel Up with Iconic Pittsburgh Eats and Sweet Treats as you Ride the Day Away
Best Soup in Pittsburgh
The soup in Pittsburgh is not to be missed. Here are a few of our favorites.
Pittsburgh’s Fish Fry-Days | 2026 Fish Fry Guide
Lent is here, which means that it's time for Fish Fry-days at restaurants, churches and fire halls across the city!
Best Donut Shops in Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh’s donut scene is a true treasure for anyone with a sweet tooth.
Dry Pittsburgh: Where to Get Mocktails and Nonalcoholic Beer
Uncover the bars and restaurants with mocktails and nonalcoholic beer that perfectly complement any moment.
Insider’s Guide to the Top Seafood Restaurants in Pittsburgh
Discover some of the best seafood restaurants in Pittsburgh, where you’ll find both traditional dishes like steamed oysters and modern…