Pittsburgh Sports
In Pittsburgh, we bleed black and gold.
Come see for yourself why
magazine awarded Pittsburgh the coveted
"Best Sports City"
title and why the
10 Best Reader's Choice poll named Pittsburgh as one of the winners of the
"Best City for Sports"
If its action you want, this city has it covered with the best of football, baseball, hockey and more. Grab your
Acrisure Stadium
to watch the six-time Super Bowl Champion Pittsburgh Steelers. Head to
PPG Paints Arena
and join in all the excitement when the Penguins take the ice. The Pirates make a perfect
night complete as you watch the game from PNC Park, rated by
Travel & Leisure
"best baseball stadium in America
Pittsburgh Steelers
Pittsburgh is officially "Sixburgh" as the Steelers became the first team in NFL history to win six Super Bowl titles! Steelers Nation spreads far and wide, so grab your
and come celebrate where it all originates: the Home of the World Champion Pittsburgh Steelers. Here we go!
Where to See Them:
Acrisure Stadium
68,400 (record is 70,622 for the 2022 Backyard Brawl between Pitt and West Virginia)
University of Pittsburgh Panthers D1 football, Rib Fest
Terrible Towels waving, "Renegade" being played in the fourth quarter, incredible skyline views
This stadium hosted two outdoor hockey games - the 2011 NHL Winter Classic and 2017 NHL Stadium Series.
Acrisure Stadium
(then known as Heinz Field)
played a "destructively" famous role in the 2012 blockbuster
The Dark Knight Rises
Pittsburgh Pirates
You can always count on the Pittsburgh Pirates for an exciting summer of baseball! Raise the Jolly Roger at
, hailed as one of the best ballparks in the country. Let's Go Bucs!
Where to See Them:
All Star Craft Beer, Wine and Cocktail Festival
Skyline views, fireworks nights, the Pittsburgh Pierogi Race,
fantastic local food and brews
70 home run balls have exited the stadium and splashed into the Allegheny River, but only five have landed in the river without bouncing.
PNC Park offers stadium tours all season long that take you onto the field for an up-close look at this magnificent stadium.
Pittsburgh Penguins
The ice might be cold, but the Pittsburgh Penguins are HOT! When the five-time Stanley Cup champions take the ice at
PPG Paints Arena
it's "A Great Day for Hockey." Tickets sell out fast, so don't be left out of the action! Let's Go Pens!
Where to See Them:
PPG Paints Arena
NCAA ice hockey and basketball tournaments
The antics of Iceburgh (the Penguins' mascot), RC Cola, fantastic concerts, WWE live events, Monster Jam and other family events
The Penguins had a record-setting sellout streak that lasted 14 years and 633 consecutive games from 2007-2021, resulting in three Stanley Cups.
PPG Paints Arena offers free skates on select dates throughout the year. Look for announcements on social media.
Pittsburgh Riverhounds
Pittsburgh is becoming a part on America’s growing soccer landscape with the Riverhounds! Take in a great city skyline at Highmark Stadium at Station Square and help turn Pittsburgh into a #HoundTahn!
Where to See Them:
Highmark Stadium
Blues & Heritage Festival, WPIAL soccer championships
Trains rumbling by during games, Steel Army supporters section
A riverhound isn't a type of dog! It's a nickname for the people who operate coal barges on the river.
The On-Field Party Box is one of the best luxury boxes in town, offering unmatched on-the-field views with seating for up to 60.
Sports Attractions & Events
Heinz History Center-Franco Harris Sports Museum
The Franco Harris Sports Museum, a state-of-the-art museum at the
Senator John Heinz History Center
, features a stunning collection of one-of-a-kind sports artifacts and interactive exhibits that celebrate the rich tradition of sports in our region. When it comes to sports pride and sports history, no other region in the world is like western Pennsylvania.
Engine House No.25
This historic firehouse now holds some of the most fascinating memorabilia of
Roberto Clemente
. Schedule a tour to see the paintings, photographs, letters and more and learn about the personal and professional journey of this beloved Pirates player.
Pittsburgh Vintage Grand Prix
Ladies and gentleman, start your engines! Don't miss this
10-day festival of motorsport events
culminating with the Annual Vintage Races and Car Show at
on the third weekend of July. Free to spectators.
Collegiate Sports
Pittsburgh is a world-class sports town and home to many NCAA Division 1 universities, some right in the heart of the city, including the University of Pittsburgh, Duquesne University and Robert Morris University. Each school has a variety of sports teams, including football, basketball, baseball, golf, tennis…the list goes on!
In This Section
Sports Venues & Stadiums
Pittsburgh Steelers
Pittsburgh Pirates
Pittsburgh Penguins
Pittsburgh Riverhounds
Other Sports Teams
History of the Terrible Towel
Related Blog Posts
Insider’s Guide to the Steelers Hall of Honor Museum
Relive 90 years of Steelers history with interactive exhibits for all fans of the black and gold
A Guide to Acrisure Stadium for Steelers Fans
In town for a big game? We've got the scoop on how to enjoy a Steelers game in the ultimate…
Best Food at PNC Park
​Spending the day watching baseball at PNC Park is a real treat.
Cheer on the Pittsburgh Riverhounds
Add a trip to Highmark Stadium to your 2025 Pittsburgh Itinerary
Roberto Clemente, Pittsburgh’s Hero!
Pittsburgh's biggest baseball legend is Roberto Clemente and his impact on baseball and on Pittsburgh still remain.
A Guide to PPG Paints Arena for Penguins Fans
In town for your first Pens game? We answer all your questions.
Pittsburgh Steelers Hall of Famers
A look at the City of Champions' recent honors with Hall of Fame enshrinements and retired numbers.
Ultimate Steelers Gameweek Guide
Steelers Nation! In Pittsburgh for the big game? We've got the scoop on how to enjoy the ultimate sports city!
Eating Your Way Through Pittsburgh Sports
​Experience Pittsburgh’s food scene through our local sports scene