Second-most populous city in Pennsylvania, U.S.
This article is about the city in Pennsylvania. For the region, see
Greater Pittsburgh
. For other uses, see
Pittsburgh (disambiguation)
Not to be confused with
City in Pennsylvania, United States
Downtown Pittsburgh
Duquesne Incline
Roberto Clemente Bridge
Cathedral of Learning
Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh
City of Bridges, Steel City,
City of Champions, The 'Burgh, The Paris of Appalachia
("With the benevolent deity")
Interactive map of Pittsburgh
Show map of Pennsylvania
Show map of the United States
40.43972°N 79.97639°W
40.43972; -79.97639
November 27, 1758
; 267 years ago
Municipal incorporation
; 231 years ago
; 209 years ago
William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham
Robert Charland III
Anthony Coghill
Barbara Greenwood Warwick
Daniel Lavelle (President)
Erika Strassburger
58.35 sq mi (151.12 km
55.37 sq mi (143.42 km
2.97 sq mi (7.70 km
Highest elevation
1,370 ft (420 m)
Lowest elevation
in the United States
in Pennsylvania
5,471.3/sq mi (2,112.5/km
• Urban density
1,925/sq mi (743.1/km
• Pittsburgh (MSA)
$159.6 billion (2023)
Eastern Standard Time
Eastern Daylight Time
15122, 15201-15244, 15250-15255, 15257-15262, 15264-15265, 15267-15268, 15270, 15272, 15274-15279, 15281-15283, 15286, 15289-15290, 15295
GNIS feature ID
Pennsylvania Historical Marker
Allegheny County, Pennsylvania
, United States, and its
southwestern Pennsylvania
Rivers meet to form the
, it had a population of 302,971 at the 2020 census, making it the
second-most populous city
in Pennsylvania (after
Pittsburgh metropolitan area
has over 2.43 million people, making it the largest in the Ohio Valley and
second-largest in Pennsylvania
28th-largest in the U.S.
Pittsburgh–Weirton–Steubenville combined statistical area
includes parts of
Pittsburgh is known as "the Steel City" for its dominant role in the
history of the U.S. steel industry
It developed as a vital link of the
, as the mineral-rich
Allegheny Mountains
led to the region being contested by the
Civil War raiders
For part of the 20th century, Pittsburgh was behind only
in corporate headquarters employment; it had the most U.S. stockholders per capita.
Deindustrialization
in the late 20th century resulted in massive layoffs among
blue-collar workers
as steel and other heavy industries declined, coinciding with several Pittsburgh-based corporations moving out of the city.
However, the city divested from steel and, since the 1990s, Pittsburgh has focused its energies on the healthcare, education, and technology industries.
Pittsburgh is home to large medical providers, including the
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
Allegheny Health Network
68 colleges and universities
Carnegie Mellon University
University of Pittsburgh
The area has served as the federal agency headquarters for
software engineering
energy research
The city is home to ten
companies and seven of the largest 300 U.S. law firms.
Pittsburgh is sometimes called the "City of Bridges" for its
Its rich industrial history left the area with renowned cultural institutions, including the
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens
National Aviary
, and a diverse
cultural district
The city's major league
professional sports teams
Pittsburgh Steelers
Pittsburgh Penguins
Pittsburgh Pirates
. Pittsburgh is additionally where
Jehovah's Witnesses
traces its earliest origins, and was the host of the
2009 G20 Pittsburgh summit
Name of Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh was named in 1758, by Scottish General
, in honor of British statesman
William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham
. As Forbes was a
, he probably pronounced the name
Pittsburgh was incorporated as a
on April 22, 1794, with the following Act:
"Be it enacted by the
Pennsylvania State Senate
Pennsylvania House of Representatives
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania ... by the authority of the same, that the said town of Pittsburgh shall be ... erected into a borough, which shall be called the borough of Pittsburgh for ever."
From 1891 to 1911, the city's name was federally recognized as "Pittsburg", though use of the final
was retained during this period by the city government and other local organizations.
After a public campaign, the federal decision to drop the
Pittsburg Press
continued spelling the city without an
History of Pittsburgh
For a chronological guide, see
Timeline of Pittsburgh
Historical claims
Kingdom of France
Native Americans
The area of the Ohio headwaters was long inhabited by the
and several other settled groups of
Native Americans
called the confluence of the rivers
Shannopin's Town
was an 18th-century
(Delaware) town located roughly from where
is today, below the mouth of Two Mile Run, from 30th Street to 39th Street. According to
, the town was situated on the south bank of the Allegheny, nearly opposite what is now known as Washington's Landing, formerly
, in what is now the
Further information:
Pennsylvania in the American Revolution
Fort Pitt Block House
, built by the British in 1764, is the oldest extant structure in Pittsburgh.
The first known European to enter the region was the French explorer
Robert de La Salle
during his 1669 expedition down the
European pioneers, primarily Dutch, followed in the early 18th century. Michael Bezallion was the first to describe the forks of the Ohio in a 1717 manuscript, and later that year European
established area posts and settlements.
In 1749, French soldiers from Quebec launched an expedition to the forks to unite
French Louisiana
via the rivers.
During 1753–1754, the British hastily built
Fort Prince George
before a larger French force drove them off. The French built
based on LaSalle's 1669 claims. The
French and Indian War
, the North American front of the
Seven Years' War
, began with the future Pittsburgh as its center. British General
Edward Braddock
was dispatched with Major
George Washington
as his aide to take Fort Duquesne.
The British and colonial force were defeated at
Braddock's Field
. General John Forbes finally took the forks in 1758. He began construction on
William Pitt the Elder
, while the settlement was named "Pittsborough".
, a loose confederation of Native American tribes
laid siege to Fort Pitt
in 1763; the siege was eventually lifted after Colonel
defeated a portion of the besieging force at the
Battle of Bushy Run
. Bouquet strengthened the defenses of Fort Pitt the next year.
During this period, the powerful nations of the
Iroquois Confederacy
, based in New York, had maintained control of much of the Ohio Valley as hunting grounds by right of conquest after defeating other tribes. By the terms of the 1768
Treaty of Fort Stanwix
were allowed to purchase the modern region from the
. A 1769 survey referenced the future city as the "Manor of Pittsburgh".
Colony of Virginia
Province of Pennsylvania
claimed the region under their colonial charters until 1780, when they agreed under a federal initiative to extend the
Mason–Dixon line
westward, placing Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania. On March 8, 1771,
Bedford County, Pennsylvania
was created to govern the frontier.
On April 16, 1771, the city's first civilian local government was created as
William Teagarden was the first constable, and William Troop was the first clerk.
American Revolution
, the village of Pittsburgh continued to grow. One of its earliest industries was boat building for settlers of the
. In 1784, Thomas Vickroy completed a town plan which was approved by the Penn family attorney. Pittsburgh became a possession of Pennsylvania in 1785. The following year, the
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
was started, and in 1787, the
Pittsburgh Academy
was chartered. Unrest during the
Whiskey Rebellion
of 1794 resulted in federal troops being sent to the area. By 1797, glass manufacture began, while the population grew to around 1,400. Settlers arrived after crossing the
Appalachian Mountains
(now Pittsburgh) at the source of the Ohio River became the main base for settlers moving into the
Northwest Territory
Further information:
Pennsylvania in the American Civil War
Monongahela River
and its surroundings in 1857
of Pittsburgh by
The federal government recognizes Pittsburgh as the starting point for the
Lewis and Clark Expedition
Preparations began in Pittsburgh in 1803 when
Meriwether Lewis
that would later be used to ascend the
cut off the supply of British goods, stimulating American industry. By 1815, Pittsburgh was producing significant quantities of iron, brass, tin, and glass. On March 18, 1816, the 46-year-old local government became a city. It was served by numerous river steamboats that increased trading traffic on the rivers.
In the 1830s, many
steelworks immigrated to the city following the aftermath of the
. By the 1840s, Pittsburgh was one of the largest cities west of the
Allegheny Mountains
Great Fire of Pittsburgh
destroyed over a thousand buildings in 1845. The city rebuilt with the aid of Irish immigrants who came to escape the
. By 1857, Pittsburgh's 1,000 factories were consuming 22 million coal bushels yearly. Coal mining and iron manufacturing attracted waves of European immigrants to the area, with the most coming from
Burning of Union Depot during the
Pittsburgh railroad strike of 1877
Because Pennsylvania had been established as a free state after the Revolution, enslaved African Americans sought freedom here through escape as refugees from the South, or occasionally fleeing from travelers they were serving who stayed in the city. There were active stations of the
Underground Railroad
in the city, and numerous refugees were documented as getting help from station agents and African-American workers in city hotels. The Drennen Slave Girl walked out of the Monongahela House in 1850, apparently to freedom.
The Merchant's Hotel was also a place where African-American workers would advise slaves the state was free and aid them in getting to nearby stations of the Underground Railroad.
Sometimes refugee slaves from the South stayed in Pittsburgh, but other times they continued North, including into Canada. Many slaves left the city and county for Canada after Congress passed the 1850
Fugitive Slave Act
, as it required cooperation from law enforcement even in free states and increased penalties. From 1850 to 1860, the black population in Allegheny County dropped from 3,431 to 2,725 as people headed to safety in Canada.
American Civil War
boosted the city's economy with increased iron and armament demand by the Union.
Andrew Carnegie
began steel production in 1875 at the
Edgar Thomson Steel Works
North Braddock, Pennsylvania
, which evolved into the
Carnegie Steel Company
. He adopted the
Bessemer process
to increase production. Manufacturing was key to the growth of Pittsburgh and the surrounding region. Railroad lines were built into the city along both rivers, increasing transportation access to important markets.
An aerial view of Pittsburgh in 1902
Steel mills in the
Carnegie Steel Company
and several other companies into
. By 1910, Pittsburgh was the
nation's eighth-largest city
, accounting for between one-third and one-half of national steel output.
Pittsburgh Agreement
memorandum of understanding
completed on 31 May 1918 between members of
expatriate communities in the U.S. It replaced the
Cleveland Agreement
of 22 October 1915.
. It concerned the future foundation of
as envisioned by
The city suffered
severe flooding
The city's population swelled to more than a half million, attracting numerous European immigrants to its industrial jobs. By 1940, non-Hispanic whites were 90.6% of the city's population.
Pittsburgh also became a main destination of the African-American
Great Migration
from the rural South during the first half of the 20th century.
Limited initially by discrimination, some 95% percent of the men became unskilled steel workers.
, demand for steel increased and area mills operated 24 hours a day to produce 95 million tons of steel for the war effort.
This resulted in the highest levels of air pollution in the city's almost century of industry. The city's reputation as the "arsenal of democracy"
was being overshadowed by
's 1868 observation of Pittsburgh being "hell with the lid off."
Following World War II, the city launched a clean air and civic revitalization project known as the "Renaissance," cleaning up the air and the rivers. The "Renaissance II" project followed in 1977, focused on cultural and neighborhood development. The industrial base continued to expand through the 1970s, but beginning in the early 1980s both the area's steel and electronics industries imploded during national industrial restructuring. There were massive layoffs from mill and plant closures.
In the later 20th century, the area shifted its economic base to education, tourism, and services, largely based on healthcare/medicine, finance, and high technology such as robotics. Although Pittsburgh successfully shifted its economy and remained viable, the city's population has never rebounded to its industrial-era highs. While 680,000 people lived in the city proper in 1950, a combination of suburbanization and economic turbulence resulted in a decrease in city population, even as the metropolitan area population increased again.
late 2000s recession
, Pittsburgh was economically strong, adding jobs when most cities were losing them. It was one of the few cities in the United States to see housing property values rise. Between 2006 and 2011, the
metropolitan statistical area
(MSA) experienced over 10% appreciation in housing prices, the highest appreciation of the largest 25 metropolitan statistical areas in the United States, with 22 of the largest 25 metropolitan statistical areas experiencing depreciations in housing values.
In September 2009, the
2009 G20 Pittsburgh summit
was held in Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh metropolitan area § Regional identity
Duquesne Incline
Mount Washington
Pittsburgh has an area of 58.3 square miles (151 km
), of which 55.6 square miles (144 km
) is land and 2.8 square miles (7.3 km
), or 4.75%, is water. The
80th meridian west
passes directly through the city's downtown.
The city is located on the
Allegheny Plateau
Western Allegheny Plateau
area (also known as the Golden Triangle) sits where the
Allegheny River
flows from the northeast and the
Monongahela River
from the southeast to form the
. The convergence is at
Point State Park
and is referred to as "the Point". The city extends east to include the
sections, which are home to the
University of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Mellon University
Chatham University
Carnegie Museum
, and many other educational, medical, and cultural institutions. The southern, western, and northern areas of the city are primarily residential.
Pittsburgh neighborhoods
are steeply sloped with two-lane roads. More than a quarter of neighborhood names make reference to "hills", "heights", or similar features.
steps of Pittsburgh
consist of 800 sets of outdoor public stairways with 44,645 treads and 24,090 vertical feet. They include hundreds of streets composed entirely of stairs, and many other steep streets with stairs for sidewalks.
Many provide vistas of the Pittsburgh area while attracting hikers and fitness walkers.
Bike and walking trails have been built to border many of the city's rivers and hollows. The
Great Allegheny Passage
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Towpath connect the city directly to downtown Washington, D.C. (some 335 miles [539 km] away) with a continuous bike/running trail.
Downtown Pittsburgh
North Side (Pittsburgh)
South Side (Pittsburgh)
West End (Pittsburgh)
List of Pittsburgh neighborhoods
List of tallest buildings in Pittsburgh
List of City of Pittsburgh historic designations
List of Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation Historic Landmarks
90 distinct neighborhoods
East Carson Street in the
South Side Flats
The city consists of the Downtown area, called the Golden Triangle,
and four main areas surrounding it—Central, North Side/North Hills, South Side/South Hills, East End, and West End. These areas are further divided into 90 neighborhoods.
Downtown Pittsburgh
has 30 skyscrapers, nine over 500 feet (150 m), with the
U.S. Steel Tower
being the tallest at 841 ft (256 m).
Cultural District
spans 14 blocks along the Allegheny River and is home to theaters, arts venues, and a growing residential community. The
portion of Downtown borders the Monongahela River, the historic Mon Wharf and hosts the distinctive
Gothic-style glass skyscraper complex. Downtown is served by the
light rail system
multiple bridges
leading north and south.
It is also home to
Point Park University
Duquesne University
, originally the independent
until being annexed in 1907, is a primarily residential area with well-preserved 19th-century homes. It hosts attractions like
Acrisure Stadium
Andy Warhol Museum
National Aviary
, among others.
, once home to railyards and mill workers, has seen revitalization with improvements to East Carson Street and new retail. It is now a vibrant neighborhood with diverse shopping and nightlife.
In the 1990s, the
Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh
purchased the South Side Works steel mill property and redeveloped it into the
SouthSide Works
mixed-use development.
The East End includes key institutions including the
University of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Mellon University
Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History
Phipps Conservatory
. It features many parks, including
Westinghouse Park
The Frick Pittsburgh
, and vibrant neighborhoods like
is also known as the hub of Jewish life in Pittsburgh, home to approximately 20 synagogues.
Oakland is home to several universities and the
Petersen Events Center
to the west along the
Allegheny River
is an open-air marketplace by day and a clubbing destination by night.
is Pittsburgh's Little Italy and is known for its Italian restaurants and grocers.
is a revitalizing rowhouse neighborhood popular with artists and designers. The
was home to photographer
as well as various African-American jazz clubs.
, with its famous view of the downtown skyline, and numerous other residential neighborhoods such as
Pittsburgh seen from
Mount Washington
at night with the
Monongahela River
in the foreground in November 2015
Regional identity
Pittsburgh metropolitan area
, a glass mural of an iron or steel worker,
memorializing Pittsburgh's
industrial heritage
Pennsylvania lies within the Northeastern United States as defined by U.S. Census Bureau regional classifications, which are used primarily for administrative and statistical purposes rather than cultural identification.
Pittsburgh lies within the boundaries of
as designated by the
Appalachian Regional Commission
, and has long been characterized as a northern urban industrial anchor of Appalachia.
In its post-industrial era, Pittsburgh has been described as the "Paris of Appalachia",
in reference to the city's cultural, educational, healthcare, and technological resources. It is the largest city within the Appalachian region.
Geographer Joseph Scarpaci has described Pittsburgh’s regional identity as bridging Northeastern and Midwestern influences, characterizing the city as having “one foot in the East... and the other in the Midwest.”
Pittsburgh is the principal city of the
Pittsburgh Combined Statistical Area
combined statistical area
U.S. Census Bureau
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Climate chart (
Average max. and min. temperatures in °F
Precipitation totals in inches
Metric conversion
Average max. and min. temperatures in °C
Precipitation totals in mm
Köppen climate classification
, Pittsburgh falls within either a
hot-summer humid continental climate
) if the 0 °C (32 °F) isotherm is used or a
humid subtropical climate
) if the −3 °C (27 °F) isotherm is used. Summers are hot and winters are moderately cold with wide variations in temperature. Despite this, it has one of the most pleasant summer climates between medium and large cities in the U.S.
The city lies in the USDA plant hardiness zone 6b except along the rivers where the zone is 7a.
The area has four distinct seasons: winters are cold and snowy, springs and falls are mild with moderate levels of sunshine, and summers are warm. As measured by percent possible sunshine, summer is by far the sunniest season, though annual sunshine is low among major US cities at well under 50%.
The warmest month of the year in Pittsburgh is July, with a 24-hour average of 73.2 °F (22.9 °C). Conditions are often humid, and combined with highs reaching 90 °F (32 °C) on an average 9.5 days a year,
arises. The coolest month is January, when the 24-hour average is 28.8 °F (−1.8 °C), and lows of 0 °F (−18 °C) or below can be expected on an average 2.6 nights per year.
Officially, record temperatures range from −22 °F (−30 °C), on
January 19, 1994
to 103 °F (39 °C), which occurred three times, most recently on July 16, 1988; the record cold daily maximum is −3 °F (−19 °C), which occurred three times, most recently the day of the all-time record low, while, conversely, the record warm daily minimum is 82 °F (28 °C) on July 1, 1901.
Due to elevation and location on the windward side of the Appalachian Mountains, 100 °F (38 °C)+ readings are very rare, and were last seen on July 15, 1995.
Average annual precipitation is 39.61 inches (1,006 mm) and precipitation is greatest in May while least in October; annual precipitation has historically ranged from 22.65 in (575 mm) in 1930 to 57.83 in (1,469 mm) in 2018.
On average, December and January have the greatest number of precipitation days. Snowfall averages 44.1 inches (112 cm) per season, but has historically ranged from 8.8 in (22 cm) in 1918–19 to 80 in (200 cm) in 1950–51.
There is an average of 59 clear days and 103 partly cloudy days per year, while 203 days are cloudy.
In terms of annual percent-average possible sunshine received, Pittsburgh (45%) is similar to
Climate data for Pittsburgh (
Pittsburgh International Airport
), 1991–2020 normals,
extremes 1874–present
Record high °F (°C)
Mean maximum °F (°C)
Mean daily maximum °F (°C)
Daily mean °F (°C)
Mean daily minimum °F (°C)
Mean minimum °F (°C)
Record low °F (°C)
Average snowfall inches (cm)
Average precipitation days
Average snowy days
relative humidity
possible sunshine
ultraviolet index
(relative humidity, dew point and sun 1961–1990)
Source 2: Weather Atlas (UV)
United States Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) data from 2021 to 2024 shows that Pittsburgh's air quality was generally good or moderate.
Despite improvements, studies suggest Pittsburgh's air quality still impacts health. A 2014 to 2016 study found that children near pollution sources like industrial sites had asthma rates nearly three times the national average.
It also revealed that 38% of students lived in areas exceeding EPA's particle pollution standards, and 70% in areas surpassing the WHO's standards.
Most affected communities were minority populations, leading some residents to believe that the continuing effects of air pollution are a case of environmental racism.
As of 2005, Pittsburgh had 31,000 trees along 900 miles of streets. A 2011 analysis valued the annual benefits of the city's
between $10 and $13 million, based on contributions to aesthetics, energy use, and air quality. The city invests $850,000 annually in tree planting and maintenance.
Local rivers in Pittsburgh continue to exceed EPA pollution limits, primarily due to
frequently overflowing untreated sewage
from the city's outdated infrastructure.
Pittsburgh's combined sewer system, built in the early 1900s, carries both stormwater and wastewater, with the treatment plant constructed in 1959.
Insufficient upgrades have led to public health concerns, as even a tenth of an inch of rain causes runoff to flow into rivers.
Nine billion gallons of untreated waste and stormwater flow into rivers per year, leading to health hazards and Clean Water Act violations.
Allegheny County Sanitary Authority
(ALCOSAN) is under a Consent Decree from the EPA and proposed a $2 billion system upgrade in 2017, approved by the EPA in 2019.
Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority
(PWSA), responsible for replacing pipes and setting water rates, has faced criticism for alleged mismanagement and for high lead levels in the city's drinking water, particularly in 2016.
While lead levels have risen for years, many residents blame PWSA's administrative changes for the spike.
In response, PWSA began adding orthophosphate to the water.
PWSA has also been working to replace lead pipes, and continuing to test water for lead.
There remains concern among residents over the long-term effects of this lead, particularly for children.
Some people also believe that the high levels of lead reflect environmental racism, as black and Hispanic children in Pittsburgh experience elevated blood-lead levels at 4 times the rate of white children.
Historical population
U.S. Decennial Census
Historical Racial composition
– Non-Hispanic White
Black or African American
Hispanic or Latino
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania – Racial and ethnic composition
Note: the US Census treats Hispanic/Latino as an ethnic category. This table excludes Latinos from the racial categories and assigns them to a separate category. Hispanics/Latinos may be of any race.
Race / Ethnicity
NH = Non-Hispanic
Black or African American
Native American
Pacific Islander
Mixed race or Multiracial
Hispanic or Latino
Ethnic origins in Pittsburgh
Map of racial distribution in Pittsburgh, 2010 U.S. census. Each dot is 25 people:
, there were 305,704 people residing in Pittsburgh, a decrease of 8.6% since 2000; 66.0% of the population was White, 25.8% Black or African American, 0.2% American Indian and Alaska Native, 4.4% Asian, 0.3% Other, and 2.3% mixed; in 2020, 2.3% of Pittsburgh's population was of Hispanic or Latino American origin of any race.
Non-Hispanic whites
were 64.8% of the population in 2010,
compared to 78.7% in 1970.
, the population slightly declined further to 302,971.
Its racial and ethnic makeup in 2020 was 64.7% non-Hispanic white, 23.0% Black or African American, 5.8% Asian, and 3.2% Hispanic or Latino American of any race.
Since the beginning of the 21st century, the five largest European ethnic groups in Pittsburgh were German (19.7%), Irish (15.8%), Italian (11.8%), Polish (8.4%), and English (4.6%), while the metropolitan area is approximately 22% German-American, 15.4% Italian American and 11.6% Irish American. Pittsburgh has one of the largest
Italian-American
communities in the nation,
and the fifth-largest
community per the
Pittsburgh has one of the most extensive
Croatian communities
in the United States.
Overall, the Pittsburgh metro area has one of the largest populations of
in the country.
Pittsburgh has a sizable Black and African American population, concentrated in various neighborhoods especially in the East End. There is also a small Asian community consisting of
Indian immigrants
, and a small Hispanic community consisting of
In 2010, there were 143,739 households, out of which 21.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 31.2% were married couples living together, 16.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 48.4% were non-families. 39.4% of all households were made up of individuals, and 13.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.17 and the average family size was 2.95. In the city, the population was spread out, with 19.9% under the age of 18, 14.8% from 18 to 24, 28.6% from 25 to 44, 20.3% from 45 to 64, and 16.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females, there were 90.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 87.8 males.
for a household in the city was $28,588, and the median income for a family was $38,795. Males had a median income of $32,128 versus $25,500 for females. The
per capita income
for the city was $18,816. About 15.0% of families and 20.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 27.5% of those under the age of 18 and 13.5% ages 65 or older. By the 2019
American Community Survey
, the median income for a household increased to $53,799.
Families had a median income of $68,922; married-couple families had a median income of $93,500; and non-family households had a median income of $34,448. Pittsburgh's wealthiest suburbs within city limits are
, the only two areas of the city which have average household incomes over $100,000 a year.
As of 2018, much of Pittsburgh's population density was concentrated in the central, southern, and eastern areas. The city limits itself have a
population density
of 5,513 people per square mile; its most densely populated parts are
(at 21,200 per square mile) and
Uptown Pittsburgh
(at 19,869 per square mile). Outside of the city limits,
were Pittsburgh's most densely populated neighborhoods, with 11,167 and 9,902 people per square mile respectively.
Most of Pittsburgh's immigrants are
Demographic changes
Since the 1940s, city initiatives for redevelopment have driven demographic changes in Pittsburgh. In the 1950s, the Lower
underwent significant upheaval when 1,551 mostly Black residents and 413 businesses were displaced for the construction of the
, which opened in 1961.
This project, part of Pittsburgh's revitalization efforts, led to the neighborhood's population dropping to an estimated 12,000 today.
In the 1960s, the
Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh
(URA) aimed to revitalize
, resulting in the construction of Penn Center Mall and the displacement of about 3,800 people.
By the early 2000s, private developers catering to a wealthier demographic introduced businesses like
, Whole Foods, and Google. This redevelopment, supported by the URA, transformed East Liberty into a desirable area for millennials.
These changes have sparked criticism, with some residents arguing that the government's actions were part of a strategy to disperse Black and low-income populations or facilitate
of neighborhoods.
The demolition of housing units like the East Mall public housing complex in 2009, replaced by businesses like Target, is cited as evidence of this process.
Religion in Pittsburgh (2014)
According to a 2014 study by the
Pew Research Center
, 78% of the population of the city identified themselves as Christians, with 42% professing attendance at a variety of churches that could be considered
, and 32% professing
beliefs. 18% claimed no religious affiliation. The same study said that other religions (including Judaism, Buddhism, Islam, and Hinduism) collectively made up about 4% of the population.
According to a 2010
Association of Religion Data Archives
(ARDA) study, residents included 773,341 "Catholics"; 326,125 "Mainline Protestants"; 174,119 "Evangelical Protestants;" 20,976 "Black Protestants;" and 16,405 "Orthodox Christians," with 996,826 listed as "unclaimed" and 16,405 as "other" in the metro area.
A 2017 study by the Cohen Center for Modern Jewish Studies at
Brandeis University
Jewish population of Greater Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh is also cited as the location where the earliest precursor to
Jehovah's Witnesses
Charles Taze Russell
; today the denomination makes up approximately 1% of the population based on data from the
Pew Research Center
Economy of Pittsburgh
List of corporations in Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh has adapted since the collapse of its century-long steel and electronics industries. The region has shifted to high technology,
, health care, nuclear engineering, tourism,
biomedical technology
, finance, education, and services. Annual payroll of the region's technology industries, when taken in aggregate, exceeded $10.8 billion in 2007,
and in 2010 there were 1,600 technology companies.
National Bureau of Economic Research
2014 report named Pittsburgh the second-best U.S. city for intergenerational economic mobility
Reflecting the citywide shift from industry to technology, former factories have been renovated as modern office space. Google has research and technology offices in a refurbished 1918–1998
factory, a complex known as
Some of the factory's original equipment, such as a large dough mixer, were left standing in homage to the site's industrial roots.
Pittsburgh's transition from its
industrial heritage
has earned it praise as "the poster child for managing industrial transition".
Other major cities in the northeast and mid-west have increasingly borrowed from Pittsburgh's
in order to renew their industries and economic base.
The largest employer in the city is the
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
, with 48,000 employees. All hospitals, outpatient clinics, and doctor's office positions combine for 116,000 jobs, approximately 10% of the jobs in the region. An analyst recently observed of the city's medical sector: "That's both more jobs and a higher share of the region's total employment than the steel industry represented in the 1970s."
Education is a major economic driver in the region. The largest single employer in education is the
University of Pittsburgh
, with 10,700 employees.
companies call the Pittsburgh area home.
They are (in alphabetical order):
Alcoa Corporation
Arconic Corporation
Dick's Sporting Goods
The Kraft Heinz Company
PNC Financial Services
U.S. Steel Corporation
(NASDAQ: VRTS),
Wabtec Corporation
(NYSE: WAB), and
WESCO International
The region is home to
Allegheny Technologies
American Eagle Outfitters
EQT Corporation
Howmet Aerospace
headquarters. Other major employers include
GlaxoSmithKline
Thermo Fisher Scientific
. The Northeast U.S. regional headquarters for
Chevron Corporation
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
RAND Corporation
call the area home.
General Nutrition Center
(GNC), CNX Gas (CXG), and
Genco Supply Chain Solutions
are major non-public companies headquartered in the region. The global impact of Pittsburgh technology and business was recently demonstrated in several key components of the
Boeing 787 Dreamliner
being manufactured and supplied by area companies.
Area retail is anchored by over 35
and a healthy downtown retail sector, as well as boutique shops along
The nonprofit arts and cultural industry in Allegheny County generates $341 million in economic activity that supports over 10,000 full-time equivalent jobs with nearly $34 million in local and state taxes raised.
environmental design
, the city is home to 60 total and 10 of the world's first
green buildings
while billions have been invested in the area's
natural gas fields.
A renaissance of Pittsburgh's 116-year-old film industry—that boasts the world's first
—has grown from the long-running
Three Rivers Film Festival
to an influx of
major television
movie productions
offices with the largest sound stage outside Los Angeles and New York City.
Pittsburgh has hosted many conventions, including
, the world's largest invention trade show, since 1984;
, a four-day anime convention, since 2003;
, a furry convention, since 2006; and the
energy trade show since 2009.
Arts and culture
Culture of Pittsburgh
East Room of the
Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens
Pittsburgh boasts a rich arts and culture scene, with a history dating back to 19th-century industrialists who commissioned and donated public works including
Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Pittsburgh Opera
. Other prominent groups include the
River City Brass Band
Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Orchestra
. The city also hosts a variety of smaller arts organizations, such as
Pittsburgh Irish and Classical Theatre
Quantum Theatre
Renaissance and Baroque Society of Pittsburgh
Chatham Baroque
, an early music ensemble. University choirs include the
Pitt Men's Glee Club
Heinz Chapel Choir
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre
Pittsburgh Dance Council
offer diverse dance events, while polka, folk, square, and round dancing are celebrated by the
Duquesne University Tamburitzans
, a multicultural academy dedicated to folk traditions. Pittsburgh is also a popular filming location, with major productions like
The Dark Knight Rises
filmed in Downtown, Oakland, and the North Shore. The city is also recognized as the birthplace of the modern zombie film genre after
George A. Romero
Night of the Living Dead
The Andy Warhol Museum
is one of the four
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh
Major art museums include the
Andy Warhol Museum
Carnegie Museum of Art
The Frick Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts
Mattress Factory
Carnegie Museum of Natural History
, which holds extensive dinosaur, mineral, and Egyptian collections. The
Kamin Science Center
offer interactive technology and science exhibits. The
Heinz History Center
Smithsonian affiliate
, provides regional history in the Strip District, while the
Fort Pitt Museum
is located in Point State Park. The
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall and Museum
houses military exhibits, and the
Children's Museum of Pittsburgh
features interactive exhibits for kids. The eclectic
Bayernhof Music Museum
is located six miles (9
km) from downtown, while
The Clemente Museum
is in Lawrenceville. The
Cathedral of Learning
Nationality Rooms
showcase pre-19th-century learning environments, and architectural tours are available in many neighborhoods. Downtown's cultural district hosts quarterly Gallery Crawls and the annual
Three Rivers Arts Festival
. Pittsburgh also has art galleries such as the
Miller Gallery at Carnegie Mellon University
University Art Gallery
of the University of Pittsburgh, the
American Jewish Museum
Wood Street Galleries
Pittsburgh is home to the
Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium
Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens
National Aviary
, all over a century old.
, a classic amusement park, is located in West Mifflin, and the
, just west of Kamin Science Center and
Acrisure Stadium
Pittsburgh hosts
, one of the world's largest
furry conventions
, which has been held annually at the
David L. Lawrence Convention Center
since 2006. In 2024, the event attracted over 17,000 visitors and has generated a cumulative economic impact of $53 million over 11 years.
Additionally, the reality show
is filmed at Pittsburgh's Abby Lee Dance Company.
Pittsburgh has a long tradition of
bluegrass music
National Negro Opera Company
was founded in the city as the first all-African American opera company in the U.S., helping launch the careers of African-American opera stars like
. Pittsburgh also shaped 20th-century music with influential figures like
Billy Strayhorn
, who grew up in the city, and pianist-composer
Mary Lou Williams
, who honored her hometown with a 1966 album featuring
Recent artists like
have continued Pittsburgh's musical legacy, with his hit "
Black and Yellow
" reaching number one on the
Billboard Hot 100
Other notable artists from the area include
Christina Aguilera
, which was formed in Pittsburgh. Rusted Root's Liz Berlin owns Mr. Smalls, a popular venue for national touring acts.
, also from Pittsburgh, named his debut album
Blue Slide Park
after the local
Pittsburgh has emerged as a leading city in the United States'
heavy metal music
, originated in Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh has also seen many metal bands gain prominence in recent years,
, who were nominated for a Grammy. The city was also home to the highly influential
Pittsburgh also had an influential
electronic music
in the 1990s, with origins similar to internet
-based movements across the United States.
, barns, and fields which eventually attracted thousands of attendees.
played at local raves.
One notable figure, drum and bass DJ
, emerged from this scene.
Since 2012, the
after-hours electronic music
has been a key part of Pittsburgh's electronic music scene, noted for its European nightclub vibe.
Electronic artist
has credited Hot Mass as a formative influence during her time at Carnegie Mellon University.
Hellbender Vinyl
, the largest vinyl record manufacturing company in Pennsylvania, is located in Pittsburgh.
Theatre in Pittsburgh
The city's first play was produced at the
and the first theater built in 1812.
Collegiate companies include the University of Pittsburgh's
Repertory Theatre
Kuntu Repertory Theatre
, Point Park University's resident companies at its
Pittsburgh Playhouse
, and Carnegie Mellon University's School of Drama productions and
organization. The Duquesne University Red Masquers, founded in 1912, are the oldest, continuously producing theater company in Pennsylvania.
citation needed
The city's longest-running theater show,
Friday Nite Improvs
, is an improv jam that has been performed in the
Cathedral of Learning
and other locations for 20 years. The
Pittsburgh New Works Festival
utilizes local theater companies to stage productions of original one-act plays by playwrights from all parts of the country. Similarly,
showcases new ten-minute plays.
Saint Vincent Summer Theatre
Off the Wall Productions
Mountain Playhouse
, The Theatre Factory, and
, respectively, employ Pittsburgh actors and contribute to the culture of the region.
Pittsburgh is well known for being home to the late playwright August Wilson.
The August Wilson House now remains in Pittsburgh to celebrate the life and work of August Wilson, continue to produce his plays, and serve as an arts center for the Hill District, where Wilson was from.
List of fiction set in Pittsburgh
List of films shot in Pittsburgh
List of television shows shot in Pittsburgh
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
Main Branch in Oakland
Pittsburgh is the birthplace of notable writers such as
Chatham University
graduate from the suburb of
Springdale, Pennsylvania
Modern writers include
-winning playwright
, who writes about student and college life in Pittsburgh.
Two-time Pulitzer winner and recipient of the
Presidential Medal of Freedom
David McCullough
, was born and raised in Pittsburgh.
Pulitzer Prize-winning author
An American Childhood
takes place in post-World War II Pittsburgh, also hails from the city.
Award-winning author
John Edgar Wideman
, who grew up in Pittsburgh, has based several books in the city, including
Brothers and Keepers
, winner of the 2010 National Book Award and a 2014 MacArthur Foundation Fellow, earned his MFA at the University of Pittsburgh and was a faculty member there. Other local poets include
Autumn House Press
Samuel John Hazo
, Pennsylvania's first poet laureate. Contemporary writers like
Kathleen Tessaro
, author of novels such as
The Perfume Collector
, and new authors including
and Brian Celio, who captures Pittsburgh's "Yinzer" dialect, contribute to the city's vibrant literary tradition. Pittsburgh's unique literary style extends to playwrights,
as well as local graffiti and hip hop artists.
Pittsburgh's position as the birthplace for community-owned television and networked commercial television helped spawn the modern children's show genres exemplified by
Mister Rogers' Neighborhood
Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?
Cappelli & Company
The Children's Corner
, all nationally broadcast.
series has showcased the
genre to a global YouTube audience since 2011.
The modern fantasy, macabre and science fiction genre was popularized by director
George A. Romero
Chiller Theatre
director and writer
and makeup effects guru
The genre continues today with the PARSEC science fiction organization,
The It's Alive Show, the annual "Zombie Fest",
and several writer's workshops including Write or Die,
Pittsburgh SouthWrites,
and Pittsburgh Worldwrights
Barton Paul Levenson
Kenneth Chiacchia
Elizabeth Humphreys Penrose
Pittsburgh is known for several culinary specialties including
chipped chopped ham
sandwiches, and
The San Francisco marketing agency AF and Co named Pittsburgh the top American food city of 2019, favorably mentioning many area restaurants including Superior Motors in
, Driftwood Oven in
, Fish nor Fowl in
, Bitter Ends Garden & Luncheonette in
, and Rolling Pepperoni in
Pittsburgh is home to the annual
-themed festival
Western Pennsylvania English
The Pittsburgh English dialect, commonly called
, was influenced by
Eastern European
immigrants and African Americans.
Locals who speak the dialect are sometimes referred to as "
" (from the local word "yinz" [var.
], a blended form of "you ones", similar to "y'all" and "you all" in the South). Common Pittsburghese terms are: "slippy" (slippery), "redd up" (clean up), "jagger bush" (thorn bush), and "gum bands" (rubber bands). The dialect is also notable for dropping the verb "to be". In Pittsburghese one would say "the car needs washed" instead of "needs to be washed", "needs washing", or "needs a wash." The dialect has some tonal similarities to other nearby regional dialects of Erie and Baltimore but is noted for its somewhat
rhythms. The staccato qualities of the dialect are thought to originate either from Welsh or other European languages. The many local peculiarities have prompted
The New York Times
to describe Pittsburgh as "the
Galapagos Islands
of American dialect".
The lexicon itself contains notable loans from
and other European languages; examples include
The Frick Environmental Center at
Pittsburgh has five city parks and several parks managed by the
Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy
, provides 664 acres (269 ha) of woodland park with extensive hiking and biking trails throughout steep valleys and wooded slopes. Birding enthusiasts visit the Clayton Hill area of Frick Park, where over 100 species of birds have been recorded.
Residents living in extremely low-lying areas near the rivers or one of the 1,400 creeks and streams may have occasional floods,
such as those caused when the remnants of
hit rainfall records in 2004.
River flooding is relatively rare due to federal flood control efforts extensively managing locks, dams, and reservoirs.
Residents living near smaller tributary streams are less protected from occasional flooding. The cost of a comprehensive flood control program for the region has been estimated at a prohibitive $50 billion.
Pittsburgh has the greatest number of bars per capita in the nation.
Sports in Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh hosted the
first professional football game
first World Series
. College sports also have large followings with the University of Pittsburgh in football and sharing Division I basketball fans with Robert Morris and Duquesne.
Pittsburgh has a long history with its major professional sports teams—the
National Football League
National Hockey League
Major League Baseball
—which all share the same team colors, the
official city colors of black and gold
Pittsburgh is the only city in the United States where this practice of sharing colors across all city teams takes place.
The black-and-gold color scheme has since become widely associated with the city and personified in its famous
Pittsburgh Riverhounds
professional soccer team of the
USL Championship
division wear black and gold colors.
Rails to Trails
" program has converted miles of former
to recreational trails, including a
Pittsburgh-Washington D.C. bike/walking trail
mountain biking
trails are within the city and suburbs,
has biking trails and
Hartwood Acres Park
has many miles of
Pittsburgh Pirates
Major League Baseball
Pittsburgh Steelers
National Football League
Acrisure Stadium
Pittsburgh Penguins
National Hockey League
PPG Paints Arena
Minor league/other
Pittsburgh Riverhounds SC
USL Championship
Highmark Stadium
Steel City Yellow Jackets
A Giving Heart Community Center
Pittsburgh Riveters
Highmark Stadium
The Pirates won championships in
. 1901 and 1902 were Pre World-Series Era Champions.
The Steelers won championships in
The Penguins won championships in
The Pittsburgh Riverhounds won the
2025 USL Championship season
Pittsburgh's ABA franchise won the 1968 title, but the Steel City Yellow Jackets franchise is heir to it only in location.
Prominent sports
National Championships
University of Pittsburgh
Acrisure Stadium
Pitt Basketball
Petersen Events Center
1927–28 1929–30
Prominent sports
National Championships
Duquesne University
Art Rooney Field
Dukes Basketball
UPMC Cooper Fieldhouse
Robert Morris University
Colonials Basketball
UPMC Events Center
Colonials Hockey
Island Sports Center
The Panthers won championships in
, home stadium of the
Pittsburgh Pirates
[t]his is the perfect blend of location, history, design, comfort and baseball ... The best stadium in baseball is in Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh Pirates
baseball team, often referred to as the Bucs or the Buccos (derived from
), is the city's oldest professional sports franchise, having been founded in 1881, and plays in the
Central Division
National League
. The Pirates are nine-time Pennant winners and five-time
Champions, were in the first
World Series (1903)
and claim two pre-World Series titles in 1901 and 1902. The Pirates play in
Pittsburgh also has a rich
history, with the former
Pittsburgh Crawfords
Homestead Grays
credited with as many as 14 league titles and 11 Hall of Famers between them in the 1930s and 1940s, while the
fielded teams in the 1920s. In addition, in 1971 the Pirates were the first Major League team to field an all-minority lineup. One sportswriter claimed, "No city is more synonymous with black baseball than Pittsburgh."
Since the late 20th century, the Pirates had three consecutive
National League Championship Series
appearances (1990–92) (going 6, 7 and 7 games each), followed by setting the MLB record for most consecutive losing seasons, with 20 from 1993 until 2012. This era was followed by three consecutive postseason appearances: the 2013
National League Division Series
and the 2014–2015 Wild Card games. Their
September pennant race
in 1997 featured the franchises' last no-hitter and last award for
Sporting News' Executive of the Year
Further information:
American football in Western Pennsylvania
Pittsburgh Steelers
fans waving the
, a tradition that dates back to
The city's professional team,
Pittsburgh Steelers
, is named after the distribution company the Pittsburgh Steeling company, established in 1927. News of the team has preempted news of elections and other events and are important to the region and its
. The Steelers have been owned by the
since the team's founding in 1933,
are noted for consistency in coaching (the team has had only three head coaches since the 1960s, all with the same basic philosophy
clarification needed
) and have been called one of sports' most respectable franchises.
citation needed
The Steelers have a long waiting list for season tickets, and have sold out every home game since 1972.
The team won four
in a six-year span in the 1970s, a
fifth Super Bowl
in 2006, and a league record
sixth Super Bowl
College football
in the city dates to 1889
of the University of Pittsburgh posting nine
national championships
, qualifying 37 total bowl games, appearing in the
2018 ACC Championship Game
, and winning the
2021 ACC Championship Game
which was the program's first conference title since leaving the
between the 2012 and 2013 seasons.
Local universities Duquesne and Robert Morris have loyal fan bases that follow their lower
Acrisure Stadium serves as home for the Steelers, Panthers, and both the suburban and city high school championships. Playoff franchises
Pittsburgh Power
and Pittsburgh Gladiators competed in the
Arena Football League
in the 1980s and 2010s respectively. The Gladiators hosted
in the city, competing in two, but losing both before moving to
and becoming the
Pittsburgh Passion
has been the city's professional women's football team since 2002 and plays its home games at
Highmark Stadium
Pittsburgh Maulers
winner in the mid-1980s, former superstar University of Nebraska running back
Pittsburgh Penguins
have played in Pittsburgh since the team's founding in 1967. The team has won 6
Eastern Conference
titles (1991, 1992, 2008, 2009, 2016 and 2017) and 5
championships (1991, 1992, 2009, 2016 and 2017). Since 1999, Hall of Famer and back-to-back playoff MVP
has served as Penguins owner. Until moving into the
PPG Paints Arena
in 2010 (when it was known as Consol Energy Center), the team played their home games at the world's first retractable domed stadium, the
, or in local parlance "The Igloo".
has had a regional fan base since the 1890s semi-pro
. The city's first ice rink dates back to 1889, when there was an ice rink at the Casino in
. From 1896 to 1956, the Exposition Building on the Allegheny River near The Point and Duquesne Gardens in Oakland offered indoor skating.
The NHL awarded one of its first franchises to the city in 1924 on the strength of the back-to-back USAHA championship-winning
Pittsburgh Yellow Jackets
Pittsburgh Pirates
made several Stanley Cup playoff runs before folding from
Great Depression
financial pressures. Hockey survived with the
Pittsburgh Hornets
farm team (1936–1967) and their seven finals appearances and three championships in 18 playoff seasons.
Robert Morris University
fields a Division I college hockey team at the
Island Sports Center
. Pittsburgh has semi-pro and amateur teams such as the Pittsburgh Penguins Elite.
Pro-grade ice rinks in the region include the
Rostraver Ice Garden
Iceoplex at Southpointe
men's basketball game at the
Petersen Events Center
Professional basketball
in Pittsburgh dates to the 1910s with teams "Monticello" and "Loendi" winning
five national titles
(1937–45 in the
Pittsburgh Ironmen
inaugural season), the
Pittsburgh Rens
Pittsburgh Pipers
American Basketball Association
championship in 1968) led by Connie Hawkins (team then moved); the Pittsburgh Condors (ABA returned in 1970–72), the
Pittsburgh Piranhas
(CBA Finals in 1995), the
Pittsburgh Xplosion
(2009–10) both of the
Three Pittsburgh universities, the
University of Pittsburgh
Duquesne University
Robert Morris University
, compete in NCAA Division I basketball. Pitt and Duquesne are the traditional basketball powers in the city, but all three universities have made multiple appearances in the
National Invitation Tournament
NCAA tournament
. Pitt won two pre-NCAA tournament National Championships in 1928 and 1930
while Duquesne won the NIT title in 1955, its second straight trip to the NIT title game. Both Pitt and Duquesne have reached the NCAA tournament Final Four once, Duquesne in 1940 and Pitt in 1941.
Pittsburgh Panthers women's basketball
has qualified for 14 post season tournaments (including 4 NCAA tournaments) and boasts of 5 All-Americans selected 6 times with 3 WNBA players. Pitt women began play in 1914 before being reintroduced in 1970. Both Duquesne and Robert Morris also have competitive Division I women's basketball programs.
, an American professional
team, were founded in 1998. Like the major league teams in the city, the Riverhounds wear black and gold kits. The club plays in the
Eastern Conference
USL Championship
, the second tier of the American soccer pyramid. The Riverhounds play their home games at
Highmark Stadium
soccer-specific stadium
List of people from the Pittsburgh metropolitan area § Golf
has deep roots in the area.
Foxburg Country Club
, the oldest U.S. course in continuous use (dating from 1887) calls the region home.
Oakmont Country Club
holds the record for most times as host for the
at nine; it has also hosted the
U.S. Women's Open
PGA Championships
learned the game and began their careers on Pittsburgh area courses.
Suburban courses such as
Laurel Valley Golf Club
and the Fox Chapel Golf Club have hosted PGA Championships (1937, 1965), the
LPGA Championships
Senior Players Championships
(2012–14), and the
Senior PGA Championship
Local courses have sponsored annual major tournaments for 40 years:
Pennsylvania Open Championship
1920–1940 (even years)
Dapper Dan Open
Pittsburgh Open (LPGA Tour)
Pittsburgh Senior Classic
84 Lumber Classic
Professional wrestling
professional wrestlers
and promoters have hailed from the city or started their careers in Pittsburgh, including
Bruno Sammartino
Dominic DeNucci
section of Pittsburgh served as the base of the televised show
Studio Wrestling
during the 1960s.
Keystone State Wrestling Alliance
professional wrestling promotion
which was founded in Pittsburgh in 2000. It is the only promotion based in Pittsburgh. It operates in the city's
Lawrenceville neighborhood
. The KSWA performs Monthly on Saturdays at its main venue on 51st Street.
Annual sporting events
Pittsburgh Vintage Grand Prix
Pittsburgh hosts several annual major sporting events initiated in the late 20th century, including the:
Three Rivers Regatta
Pittsburgh Vintage Grand Prix
Dirty Dozen Cycle Race
Pittsburgh Marathon
Head of the Ohio
Regatta (since 1987)
The city's vibrant rivers have attracted annual world-title fishing competitions of the
Forrest Wood Cup
in 2009 and the
Bassmaster Classic
Annual events continue during the winter months at area ski resorts such as
Hidden Valley Resort
Laurel Mountain
. Ice skating rinks are enjoyed at
Government and politics
Government of Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh City-County Building
, the seat of government of the City of Pittsburgh
Government of Pittsburgh
is composed of the
Mayor of Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh City Council
, and various boards and commissions. The mayor and the nine-member council each serve four-year terms. Since the 1950s the
Mayor's Chief of Staff
has assumed a large role in advising, long term planning, and as a "gatekeeper" to the mayor. City council members are chosen by
elections in each of nine districts. The government's official offices are in the
Pittsburgh City-County Building
Pennsylvania Supreme Court
holds sessions in Pittsburgh, as well as
and Philadelphia. Pittsburgh is represented in the
Pennsylvania General Assembly
Senate Districts
House Districts
. Federally, Pittsburgh is part of
Pennsylvania's 12th congressional district
Allegheny County, Pennsylvania § Politics
2020 presidential election by precinct
In 2006, Council President
Luke Ravenstahl
was sworn in as mayor at age 26, becoming the youngest mayor in the history of any major American city. His successor,
, was sworn in on January 6, 2014. In November 2021, Pittsburgh elected its first African-American mayor,
American Civil War
, Pittsburgh was strongly abolitionist. It is considered the
birthplace of the national Republican Party
as the party held its first convention here in February 1856. From the Civil War to the 1930s, Pittsburgh was a
stronghold. The effects of the
Great Depression
, combined with entrenched local GOP scandals, resulted in a shift among voters to the Democratic Party. With the exceptions of the
elections (where lifelong Democrats ran off the party ticket), Democrats have been elected consecutively to the mayor's office since the
. The city's ratio of party registration is 5 to 1 Democrat.
Pittsburgh is represented in the
Pennsylvania General Assembly
Senate Districts
Lindsey Williams
Wayne D. Fontana
House Districts
Abigail Salisbury
-36, and John Inglis-38).
Federally, Pittsburgh is part of
Pennsylvania's 12th congressional district
, represented by
Law enforcement
Chevrolet Impala
belonging to the
Pittsburgh Police
The area's largest law enforcement agency is the
Pittsburgh Bureau of Police
, with close to 850 sworn officers. The city also has separate housing and school police departments. Other agencies also provide police protection within the city because of overlapping jurisdictional boundaries. The
Allegheny County Sheriff
focuses on jail and
Allegheny County Police
primarily patrols county-owned parks and airports, while providing detective/investigatory functions for smaller suburbs and the
Port Authority police
patrols rapid transit.
Pennsylvania State Police
Troop B provides patrols for the city and immediate suburbs.
The county's lead law enforcement officer is
Allegheny County District Attorney
Stephen Zappala
Allegheny County Medical Examiner
heads forensics. Crimes of a federal nature are covered by the
U.S. Attorney for Western Pennsylvania
Pittsburgh annually ranks as one of America's safest big cities, in 2013 being named the 3rd "most secure" big city by Farmers Insurance.
crime rates of the 60 largest U.S. cities
, 43 had more instances of property crime while 16 had less when compared to Pittsburgh. More instances of violent crime were reported in 21 of the largest cities while 37 had less. The FBI recommends against using data for ranking.
Per 100,000 persons stats (2012):
At the end of 2019, the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police reported 37 murders in the city that year.
In Pittsburgh, the homicide rate for African Americans is seven times the national average.
Some people believe that over-reliance on law enforcement exacerbates homicide rates.
There is also concern regarding the effectiveness of law enforcement in solving these cases, as 97% of unsolved cases involved a black victim.
This has led certain residents to believe law enforcement to be ineffective or apathetic.
This is despite an increasing police budget. In 2023, members of the Pittsburgh City Council approved an increase to the police budget by $6 million.
About 6% of this money is expected to go to the Stop the Violence trust fund. This fund goes to improving parks and recreation, various non-profits, and to the office of Community Health and Safety, in effort to holistically improve the social pressures supposedly causing violence in Pittsburgh.
Some people do not believe these efforts to be adequate. In 2023, a study conducted by Police Scorecard rated the Pittsburgh Police Department at 37% quality (with 100% being the best). It rated Pittsburgh below the 50th percentile in 10 out of 15 categories studied: "Police Budget Cost per Person," "Fines/Forfeitures," "Police Presence/Over-Policing (Officers per Population)," "Force Used per Arrest," "Racial Disparities in Deadly Force," "Excessive Force Complaints Upheld," "Discrimination Complaints Upheld," "Criminal Misconduct Complaints Upheld," "Arrest Rate for Low Level Offenses," and "Racial Disparities in Drug Arrests".
Colleges and universities
List of colleges and universities in Pittsburgh
Cathedral of Learning
University of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh is home to many colleges, universities and research facilities, the most well-known of which are
Carnegie Mellon University
University of Pittsburgh
Duquesne University
. Also in the city are
Carlow University
Chatham University
Point Park University
Community College of Allegheny County
Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
Reformed Presbyterian Theological Seminary
Pittsburgh Institute of Mortuary Science
The campuses of Carlow, Carnegie Mellon, and the University of Pittsburgh are near each other in the
neighborhood that is the city's traditional cultural center. Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) is a private research university founded by
Andrew Carnegie
CMU contains the
Mellon College of Science
School of Computer Science
College of Engineering
School of Business
College of Fine Arts
Social and Decision Sciences
, information systems, statistics, and psychology programs.
The University of Pittsburgh, established in 1787 and popularly referred to as "Pitt", is a
school with one of the nation's largest research programs.
Pitt is known for the
Kenneth P. Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences
University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public and International Affairs
University of Pittsburgh School of Information Sciences
Swanson School of Engineering
University of Pittsburgh College of Business Administration
University of Pittsburgh School of Law
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine
University of Pittsburgh School of Social Work
, and other biomedical and health-related sciences.
Duquesne University
, a private Catholic university in the
neighborhood and is noted for its song and dance troupe, the
Duquesne University Tamburitzans
, as well as graduate programs in law, medicine, pharmacy, nursing, engineering, health sciences, business, music, and education.
Carlow University
is a small private Catholic university that while coeducational, has traditionally educated women.
Chatham University
, a liberal arts college that was founded as a woman's college but became fully coeducational in 2015,
is in the Shadyside neighborhood, but also maintains a 388-acre (157 ha) Eden Hall Farm campus in the
Point Park University
was founded in 1961 and is well known for its Conservatory of Performing Arts and its
Pittsburgh Playhouse
Primary education
Further information:
Pittsburgh Public Schools
Taylor Allderdice High School
in Pittsburgh in November 2006
Pittsburgh Public Schools
teachers are paid well relative to their peers, ranking 17th in 2000 among the 100 largest cities by population for the highest minimum salary. In 2018, the starting teacher salary offered to teachers with a BA was $46,920. The maximum annual salary for a teacher with a master's degree was $95,254.
Local public schools include many charter and magnet schools, including
City Charter High School
(computer and technology focused), Pittsburgh Montessori School (formerly Homewood Montessori),
Pittsburgh Gifted Center
Barack Obama Academy of International Studies 6-12
Pittsburgh Creative and Performing Arts 6–12
Pittsburgh Science and Technology Academy
Western Pennsylvania School for Blind Children
Western Pennsylvania School for the Deaf
Private schools in Pittsburgh include
Bishop Canevin High School
Central Catholic High School
Oakland Catholic High School
Winchester Thurston School
St. Edmund's Academy
, Hillel Academy of Pittsburgh, Yeshiva Schools and
The Ellis School
Shady Side Academy
maintains a PK–5 primary school campus in the
neighborhood, in addition to its 6–12 middle and upper school campuses in nearby suburban
. Other private institutions outside of Pittsburgh's limits include
North Catholic High School
Seton-La Salle Catholic High School
The city also has an extensive library system, both public and university. Most notable are the
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
University of Pittsburgh
's University Library System, which rank as the ninth-largest public and 18th-largest academic libraries in the nation, respectively.
Media in Pittsburgh
List of films shot in Pittsburgh
List of television shows shot in Pittsburgh
's studios at Gateway Center
There are two major daily newspapers in Pittsburgh: the
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
(online only). Weekly papers in the region include the
Pittsburgh Business Times
Pittsburgh City Paper
Pittsburgh Catholic
Pittsburgh Jewish Chronicle
New Pittsburgh Courier
. Independent student-written university-based newspapers include
University of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Mellon University
The Duquesne Duke
Duquesne University
Point Park University
University of Pittsburgh School of Law
is also home to
, the world's only university-based legal news service.
The Pittsburgh metro area is served by multiple local television and radio stations. The Pittsburgh
designated market area
(DMA) is the 22nd-largest in the U.S. with 1,163,150 homes (1.045% of the total U.S.).
The major network television stations include
). KDKA-TV, WINP-TV, and WPCB are owned-and-operated by their respective networks.
13 is the local
member station in Pittsburgh. It was established on April 1, 1954, and was the first community-sponsored television station and the fifth public station in the United States. The station has produced much original content for PBS, including
Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood
National Geographic
Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?
A wide variety of
serve the Pittsburgh market. The first was
1020 AM, also the world's first commercially licensed radio station, which began airing on November 2, 1920.
Other stations include
93.7 FM (sports),
660 AM and 107.3 FM (
urban contemporary
adult contemporary
104.7 FM (Country), and
). There are also three
public radio stations
National Public Radio
89.3 FM (classical), and
adult alternative
). Three non-commercial stations are run by
Carnegie Mellon University
University of Pittsburgh
Point Park University
Pittsburgh's 116-year-old film industry accelerated after the 2006 passage of the
Pennsylvania Film Production Tax Credit
According to the
Pittsburgh Film Office
, over 124 major motion pictures have been filmed, in whole or in part, in Pittsburgh, including
The Mothman Prophecies
The Silence of the Lambs
Striking Distance
Inspector Gadget
The Next Three Days
The Perks of Being a Wallflower
Zack and Miri Make a Porno
Pittsburgh became "Gotham City" in 2011 during filming of
The Dark Knight Rises
George A. Romero
shot nearly all his films in the area, including his
From 2017 to 2023, Pittsburgh welcomed a series of major film and television productions like
Ma Rainey's Black Bottom
, significantly contributing to the local economy.
Film production in Pittsburgh has notably impacted the region's economy and job creation, largely due to the 25% tax credit incentive established in 2007.
The Pittsburgh Film Office states that the film and television industry provides employment to over 10,000 people and pays over $500 million in wages in southwestern Pennsylvania.
Furthermore, the industry supports over 345,000 local businesses and contributes over $41 billion to them.
Pittsburgh is home to several film festivals, film schools, and organizations that encourage and promote independent and diverse filmmakers. Notable film festivals include the
Three Rivers Film Festival
, the Pittsburgh Shorts Film Festival, the JFilm Festival, the ReelAbilities Film Festival, and the Black Bottom Film Festival.
The local film schools include
Pittsburgh Filmmakers
Point Park University
- Cinema & Digital Arts, and
University of Pittsburgh
- Film Studies.
Pittsburgh's film studio infrastructure includes several sound stages and production facilities available for hire. Prominent film studios in Pittsburgh are 3 Rivers Studios, Cinelease Studios, Post Script Films, Deeplocal, and The Videohouse.
There are also plans in the pipeline to develop a new film studio complex at the
Further information:
Allegheny County Sanitary Authority
The city is served by
, one of the original 1912 power companies founded by
George Westinghouse
Water service is provided by the
Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority
Pennsylvania American Water
. Natural gas is provided by
Dominion Resources
List of hospitals in Pittsburgh
UPMC Presbyterian
Allegheny General Hospital
The two largest area health care providers are the
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
(UPMC) (since 1893) and
Allegheny Health Network
The first military hospital in U.S. history and the first west of the Atlantic Plain—General Edward Hand Hospital—served the area from 1777 to 1845.
Since 1847, Pittsburgh has hosted the world's first "Mercy Hospital".
This was followed by West Penn hospital in 1848, Passavant Hospital in 1849,
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine
in 1883, Children's Hospital in 1887, and
Magee Womens Hospital
in 1911. In 1954, Allegheny General (AGH) was among the first to administer
In 1980, UPMC announced a $250 million ($1.11 billion today) expansion and also hired transplant pioneer
In 1984, Allegheny General surgeons pioneered modern brain surgery. Starzl arranged the 1985 liver transplant of 5-year-old Amie Garrison as a UPMC surgery team flew to
Baylor University
, starting its transplant program.
Also in 1985, UPMC surgeons Drs. Griffith, Hardesty, and Trento revealed a new device after a heart-lung transplant. In 1986, UPMC announced a $230 million ($676 million today) modernization. In 1996, UPMC's planned Sicily
branch was approved by the Italian government as transplant surgeons to supervise and deliver the world's third (both earlier ones done at UPMC)--and first public—cross species marrow transplant at
University of California, San Francisco
UPMC's Thomas Detre founded the
International Society for Bipolar Disorders
at a world medical conference in Pittsburgh in 1999.
The $80 million ($150 million today)
UPMC Sports Performance Complex
Pittsburgh Panthers
Pittsburgh Steelers
opened in 2000. In 2002, AGH opened its $30 million ($54.5 million today), 5-floor, 100,000 sq. ft., cancer center. The $130 million ($233 million today) 350,000 sq. ft.
Hillman Cancer Center
opened in 2003 as UPMC entered into an 8-year, $420 million ($716 million today) agreement with
to upgrade medical technologies & health information systems.
citation needed
In 2009, the $600 million ($897 million today)
UPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh
opened. The campus was featured in world news in 2012 for several unique approaches to patient care.
UPMC officially adopted in
Erie, Pennsylvania
Hamot Medical Center
Pittsburgh Penguins
announced a state of the art training facility with UPMC in 2012.
UPMC announced in 2013 it had partnered with
Nazarbayev University
to help found its medical school.
Health discoveries
While he was a professor at the
University of Pittsburgh
, American virologist
developed one of the first successful
, which came into use in 1955.
UPMC has pioneered several world firsts including the first known cystic fibrosis heart-lung transplant (1983), the world's first simultaneous liver and heart transplant operation on a child (6-year-old
in 1984), the youngest heart-lung transplant (9 years old in 1985), the world's first heart-liver-kidney transplant (1989), the world's first heart-liver transplant on an infant (1997),
the first pediatric heart-double lung-liver transplant (1998), the nation's first double hand transplant (2009), and the first total forearm and hand transplant (2010), as well as the state's first heart transplant (1968).
published a 2012 UPMC study of two 9-year quadriplegics being able to move a robotic arm by thought, to pick up objects, shake hands, and even eat. Wiring the brain around spine damage to restore arm and leg muscle function was successful using robotic arms controlled via an embedded computer to translate signals near a small group of neurons with 200 needles.
Transportation in Pittsburgh
Aerial view of some of Pittsburgh's numerous bridges
Pittsburgh is a
city of bridges
it has three bridges more than
, Italy, which has historically held the title "City of Bridges".
Around 40 bridges cross the three rivers near the city. The
Smithfield Street Bridge
was the world's first lenticular truss bridge. The city's
Three Sisters Bridges
offer a picturesque view of the city from the North. The southwestern "entrance" to Downtown for travelers coming in from
Pittsburgh International Airport
Fort Pitt Tunnel
Fort Pitt Bridge
Fort Duquesne Bridge
is the main gateway from Downtown to both
Acrisure Stadium
Panhandle Bridge
carries Pittsburgh Regional Transit's Blue/Red/Silver subway lines across the
Monongahela River
. The renovated
J&L Steel Company
bridge has been a key traffic/running-biking trail conduit connecting the
Southside Works
Pittsburgh Technology Center
. Over 2,000 bridges span the landscape of Allegheny County.
Public transportation statistics
Pittsburgh is served by
Pittsburgh Regional Transit
, the 26th-largest transit agency in the country prior to the
COVID-19 pandemic
. The average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Pittsburgh, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 73 minutes, while 23% of public transit riders ride for more than two hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 17 minutes, while 33% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 3.9 mi (6.3 km), while 11% travel for over 7.5 mi (12 km) in a single direction.
Expressways and highways
Parkway East & West
Allegheny Valley Expressway
Ohio River Boulevard
Locals refer to the interstates fanning out from
downtown Pittsburgh
as the "parkways."
is both the "parkway east" connecting to
Pennsylvania Turnpike
) and the "parkway west" connecting to
Pittsburgh International Airport
, the Ohio end of the Turnpike and
. The "parkway north" is
connecting to I-79. The "crosstown" is
allowing access to the heart of downtown, the
Liberty Tunnels
PPG Paints Arena
. The 45-mile-long and 70-mile-long expressway sections of
Pennsylvania Route 28
also carry traffic from downtown to the northeast and western suburbs, respectively.
, 79 and 76 (the Turnpike) roughly form a triangular-shaped "beltway" with
and 80 within the media market's northern and southern limits. Turnpike spurs such as the
Mon–Fayette Expressway
Pennsylvania Route 576
also help traffic flow. The non-expressway
Pittsburgh/Allegheny County Belt System
serves navigation in the region.
Pittsburgh metropolitan area § Airports
Pittsburgh International Airport
provides commercial passenger service from over 15 airlines to the
Pittsburgh metropolitan area
Arnold Palmer Regional Airport
also provides limited commercial passenger service and is 44 miles (71 km) east of Pittsburgh.
Other airports that have or have had scheduled commercial service include
Morgantown Municipal Airport
(79 miles (127 km) south of Pittsburgh),
Youngstown–Warren Regional Airport
(81 miles (130 km) northwest of Pittsburgh),
Akron–Canton Airport
(120 miles (190 km) northwest of Pittsburgh),
Johnstown–Cambria County Airport
(60 miles (97 km) east of Pittsburgh) and
Erie International Airport
(123 miles (198 km) north of Pittsburgh).
Intercity passenger rail and bus
Union Station (Pittsburgh)
Grant Street Transportation Center
provides intercity rail service to
Pittsburgh Union Station
Capitol Limited
between Chicago and Washington, D.C., and the
to New York City.
Greyhound Lines
Fullington Trailways
connect Pittsburgh with distant cities by bus; Greyhound and Fullington Trailways buses stop at the
Grant Street Transportation Center
intercity bus terminal. Popular destinations include
Washington, D.C.
Until declines in passenger travel in the 1950s and 1960s, several stations served Pittsburgh:
Baltimore & Ohio Station
Pittsburgh & Lake Erie Railroad Station
Wabash Pittsburgh Terminal
and Pittsburgh Union Station.
Regional mass transit
Pittsburgh Light Rail
Port Authority of Allegheny County § Bus rapid transit
Steel Plaza subway station
Pittsburgh Regional Transit
, formerly known as the Port Authority of Allegheny County, is the region's mass transit system. While serving only a portion of the Pittsburgh area, the nation's 20th-largest metropolitan area, it is the 11th-largest transit agency in the United States.
Pittsburgh Regional Transit runs a network of intracity and intercity bus routes, the
Monongahela Incline
railway (more commonly known as an "incline") on Mount Washington, a
system that runs mostly above-ground in the suburbs and underground as a subway in the city, and one of the nation's largest
Pittsburgh Regional Transit owns the
Duquesne Incline
but it is operated by a non-profit preservation trust,
but accepts Pittsburgh Regional Transit passes and charges PRT fares.
The Bus System lines are
labeled by number and letter
. These are the largest portion of Pittsburgh Regional Transit and serve on streets and designated busways. Buses serve most of the county, extending as far as
Pittsburgh International Airport
, and the borders of
Westmoreland County
Beaver County, Pennsylvania
the light rail system
(commonly known as the "T") runs along both new tracks and those refurbished from the streetcar era. The light rail runs from
Acrisure Stadium
South Hills Village
, taking commuters through one of two routes: one which serves
, and the other is an express line using railways through
, built in 1903
Pittsburgh's rail industry dates to 1851 when the
Pennsylvania Railroad
first opened service between the Pittsburgh and
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
entered the city in 1871. In 1865,
Andrew Carnegie
Pittsburgh Locomotive and Car Works
, which manufactured for the industry until 1919. Carnegie also founded the
in 1894 for heavy freight services and it still serves the area's steel industry, while
George Westinghouse
has been a leader in rail engines and switching since 1869.
Pittsburgh is home to one of
Norfolk Southern Railway
's busiest freight corridors, the
Pittsburgh Line
, and operates up to 70 trains per day through the city. The suburban
Conway Rail Yard
, built in 1889, was the largest freight rail center in the world from 1956 until 1980 and is today the nation's second-largest.
, the other major freight railroad in the eastern U.S., also has
major operations
around Pittsburgh.
Port of Pittsburgh
20th-largest port
in the United States with almost 34 million short tons of river cargo for 2011. The port ranked ninth-largest in the U.S. when measured in domestic trade.
List of people from Pittsburgh
Fernando de la Mora
, Czech Republic
, North Macedonia
Greater Pittsburgh Region
List of fiction set in Pittsburgh
List of municipalities in Pennsylvania
List of people from Pittsburgh
Explanatory notes
The neighborhoods are
Arlington Heights
Brighton Heights
Crafton Heights
Duquesne Heights
Mount Washington
Northview Heights
(also known as Observatory Hill),
(also known as Perry Hilltop),
South Side Slopes
Spring Hill-City View
Stanton Heights
The warmest daily minimum at the current observation location, Pittsburgh Int'l, is only 77 °F (25 °C) on July 23, 2010, and July 16, 1980.
Mean monthly maxima and minima (i.e. the highest and lowest temperature readings during an entire month or year) calculated based on data at said location from 1991 to 2020.
Records kept September 1874 to June 1935 at the Weather Bureau Office across the Allegheny River from
Allegheny County Airport
from July 1935 to 14 September 1952, and at Pittsburgh Int'l (KPIT) since 15 September 1952. Due to its river valley and urban location as well as elevation, many of the summertime warm minima temperature records set at the WBO have not even come close to being matched at KPIT, which is at-elevation and located in the western suburbs. For more information, see
From 15% sample
Pittsburgh Power
Arena Football League
Pittsburgh Passion
Independent Women's Football League
(IWFL) use these colors as well.
Pittsburgh and Sheffield are both known as
for their connections with the steel industry.
"ArcGIS REST Services Directory"
. United States Census Bureau
"Census Population API"
. United States Census Bureau
"Pittsburgh city, Pennsylvania"
United States Census Bureau
"2020 Population and Housing State Data"
. United States Census Bureau
Deto, Ryan (August 8, 2023).
"Lawrence County added to Pittsburgh metro area"
. Archived from
on August 11, 2023
the Pittsburgh metro area now includes eight counties: Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette, Lawrence, Washington and Westmoreland
"Total Real Gross Domestic Product for Pittsburgh, PA (MSA)"
fred.stlouisfed.org
"Approved Markers"
Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission
. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
Pittsburgh's heart of steel still beats amid transformed city
David J. Lynch (September 22, 2009).
Just How Many Bridges Are There In Pittsburgh?
(September 13, 2006).
Bridges Of Pittsburgh As Varied As The City
Chicago Tribune
(October 18, 1987).
Pittsburgh has Plenty of Bridges
(June 16, 2006).
Virginia-Pennsylvania Boundary
from Virginiaplaces.org.
Fortifying Pittsburgh in 1863
from Bivouacbooks.com.
Eyewitness: 1949, TV makes Pittsburgh 'A New Promise'
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
City Cable TV Viewers Talk Back With 'QUBE'.
Pittsburgh Press
(April 14, 1982)
Cable TV firms battle to win big city contract
Pittsburgh Press
(August 13, 1979)
Pittsburgh takes 3rd: Creative Wealth
Carnegie Mellon University
(August 2, 2008)
Pittsburgh still 3rd in Fortune list
Michael Schroeder
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
(April 19, 1983)
Rockwell Shifts Headquarters to Calif.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
'Bank' building short in statue, long on style
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
(April 19, 2009)
Stock Exchange Here Closes Its Doors
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
(August 24, 1974)
And the Wolf Finally Came: The Decline and Fall of the American Steel Industry
University of Pittsburgh
Innovate or Die? Pittsburgh Chose to Innovate
Courtney Sanders U.S. Chamber of Commerce (February 12, 2014)
Pittsburgh's Shaky Economy In Worst Shape Since 1940s
Observer-Reporter
In desperate 1983, there was nowhere for Pittsburgh's economy to go but up
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
(December 23, 2012)
East Pittsburgh crunch
The Pittsburgh Press
U.S. Steel Layoff Total Hits 40%
The Pittsburgh Press
(April 14, 1982)
"30 Years: Pittsburgh moves from heavy industry to medicine, tech, energy"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Lubove, Roy (1995).
Twentieth Century Pittsburgh Volume 1: Government, Business, and Environmental Change
. University of Pittsburgh Press. pp.
10.2307/j.ctt9qh7tx
Universities Report Highest-Ever R&D Spending of $6 Billion in FY 2011
National Science Foundation (November, 2012)
Universities and Incubators
Pittsburgh Today
(July 11, 2012)
Pittsburgh's smart; survey says so
(June 25, 2013)
Google, Intel and Apple
offices in Pittsburgh from CarnegieMellon.edu.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette feature
Eaton Electronics headquarters
McKesson Automation headquarters
1,600 tech firms from
NPR's December 2010: "From Steel to Tech, Pittsburgh transforms itself"
$20.7 billion in technology payrolls from
Pittsburgh Tech Council's "About us"
$18.2 billion to local economy from
Pittsburgh Business Journal
Silicon Valley is dying
Federal Cyber Defense from the
National Cyber-Forensics & Training Alliance's "Contact Us"
CERT.org's 2011's "About Us"
Federal Robotics from the
National Robotics Engineering Center's "History"
Ritenbaugh, Stephanie (May 14, 2014).
"In The Lead: Pittsburgh leads with the most bars per person"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Archived from
on May 15, 2014
"How to Spell Pittsburgh"
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
. Archived from
on October 1, 2008
Conradt, Stacy (October 1, 2013).
"How Pittsburgh Got Its "H" Back"
"Pittsburgh Facts"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. January 1, 2003. Archived from
on May 31, 2012
"An ACT to erect the town of Pittsburgh ..."
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
. Archived from
on July 6, 2007
Stewart, George R.
Names on the Land: A Historical Account of Place-Naming in the United States
(Sentry edition (3rd) ed.).
Houghton Mifflin
Lowry, Patricia (July 17, 2011).
"Are yinz from Pittsburg?"
. The Next Page.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Solon J. Buck, Elizabeth Buck,
The Planting of Civilization in Western Pennsylvania
, 1976, Google Boeken. Books.google.com. Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
Sipe, C. Hale (April 1, 1930).
"The Principal Indian Towns of Western Pennsylvania"
Western Pennsylvania History: 1918 - 2023
Chafe, Wallace (2013).
English-Seneca Dictionary
Hanna, Charles A. (Charles Augustus) (December 6, 1911).
"The wilderness trail; or, The ventures and adventures of the Pennsylvania traders on the Allegheny path, with some new annals of the Old West, and the records of some strong men and some bad ones"
. New York, London, G.P. Putnam's Sons – via Internet Archive.
"friendsoftheriverfront.org"
. Friendsoftheriverfront.org. Archived from
on January 11, 2008
"20-43 La Salle Expedition, 1669 - Remarkable Ohio"
Remarkable Ohio
. Archived from
on January 14, 2026
"Historic Pittsburgh: Chronology"
. University of Pittsburgh Library System
"The Battle of the Monongahela"
World Digital Library
Lorant, Stefan (1999).
Pittsburgh, The Story of an American City
(5th ed.). Esselmont Books, LLC.
. Encyclopædia. 2008
White, Phillip M. (June 2, 2011).
American Indian Chronology: Chronologies of the American Mosaic
Greenwood Publishing Group
Ranlet, Phillip (2000). The British, the Indians, and smallpox: what actually happened at Fort Pitt in 1763? Pennsylvania history; 67(3).
Dixon, David (2005). Never Come to Peace Again: Pontiac's Uprising and the Fate of the British Empire in North America. University of Oklahoma Press.
Chamber of Commerce of Pittsburgh (1921).
Pittsburgh First, the Official Organ of The Chamber of Commerce of Pittsburgh
Full text of "The county court for the district of West Augusta, Virginia, held at Augusta town, near Washington, Pennsylvania, 1776–1777"
. Archive.org. Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
"A brief history of Greene County and its courts: a struggle for possession"
Christopher, Joan (December 9, 2005).
"Constables for 1771"
. Archived from
on August 22, 2016
Bauder, Bob (March 10, 2019).
"Pittsburgh recognized as starting point for Lewis and Clark expedition"
. Pittsburgh Tribune Review.
O'NEILL, BRIAN (May 13, 2018).
"Lewis & Clark started here (sorry, St. Louis)"
. Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.
William J. Switala,
Underground Railroad in Pennsylvania
, Stackpole Books, 2001, pp. 88-89
Free at Last? Slavery in Pittsburgh in the 18th and 19th Centuries
, 2009, University of Pittsburgh Library
"Vintage Map of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1902 - Ted's Vintage Art"
Teds Vintage Art - Buy Historic Art Prints & Wall Decor
Sabol, J.T.; Alzo, L.A. (2009).
Cleveland Slovaks
. Images of America. Arcadia Pub. p. 8.
PRECLÍK, Vratislav. Masaryk a legie (Masaryk and legions), váz. kniha, 219 str., vydalo nakladatelství Paris Karviná, Žižkova 2379 (734 01 Karviná) ve spolupráci s Masarykovým demokratickým hnutím (Masaryk democratic movement, Prague), 2019,
, s. 8 - 48, s. 84 - 124, s. 125 - 148, s. 157, s. 164 - 169, s. 170 - 194
"Race and Hispanic Origin for Selected Cities and Other Places: Earliest Census to 1990"
. U.S. Census Bureau. Archived from
on August 12, 2012
Boucher, Amber (February 18, 2003).
"Kids' Corner: 1910-30 saw huge black migration"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Archived from
on December 9, 2018
Lubove, Roy, ed.
New York: New Viewpoints, 1976.
"The Pittsburgh Press – Google News Archive Search"
"The Way We Were"
. November 21, 2013
Kalson, Sally (November 19, 2003).
"Cartoonist draws, fires a blank with Pittsburgh joke"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Briem, Christopher (December 30, 2011).
"More Pittsburgh real estate trends"
"US to host next G20 world meeting"
"Level III Ecoregions of Pennsylvania"
. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Archived from
on February 3, 2021
Lowry, Patricia (March 16, 2004).
"Learning the steps: Pitt researcher fell for city's stairs and has published a book that maps them"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Pittsburgh Steps, The Story of the City's Public Stairways
, Globe Pequot,
"Golden Triangle (Pittsburgh)"
. Emporis.com. Archived from the original on November 4, 2012
"Pittsburgh Neighborhoods"
City of Pittsburgh Portal
. Archived from
on June 29, 2007
"U.S. Steel Tower, Pittsburgh"
Emporis Buildings
. Archived from the original on April 1, 2012
"Port Authority Map of Pittsburgh, PA"
. Pittsburgh Port Authority. Archived from
on February 21, 2015
Allegheny City: A History of Pittsburgh's North Side by Dan Rooney and Carol Peterson
O'Neill, Brian (January 8, 2014).
"Rising home prices tell Pittsburgh's uplifting story"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"Pittsburgh Strong: Historic Tribute to a Vibrant Jewish Community"
. October 29, 2018.
Young, Virginia Alvino (February 9, 2018).
'Smoketown' Traces The Rise And Fall Of The Other Great Black Renaissance In Pittsburgh"
Toker, Franklin (2009).
"Chapter 2: Downtown: A Golden Triangle"
Pittsburgh: A New Portrait
. University of Pittsburgh Press. p. 77.
"Pittsburgh Art in Public Places: Downtown Walking Tour"
(Fourth ed.). Pittsburgh: Office of Public Art. 2016. p. 88
"Census Regions and Divisions of the United States"
. U.S. Census Bureau
Scarpaci, Joseph L.; Patrick, Kevin Joseph (June 28, 2006).
Pittsburgh and the Appalachians: cultural and natural resources in a postindustrial age
. University of Pittsburgh Pre.
O'Neill, Brian (2009).
The Paris of Appalachia: Pittsburgh in the Twenty-first Century
Carnegie Mellon University Press
Behe, Regis (March 3, 2006).
"Steel city an unlikely haven for writers"
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
. Archived from
on December 11, 2006
Watson, Bruce (December 2, 2010).
"America's 11 Best Cities for Telecommuters"
. Archived from
on March 25, 2012
Frankel, Todd (June 6, 2017).
"In Pittsburgh, the 'Paris of the Appalachians,' they're not buying Trump's climate talk"
The Washington Post
Scarpaci, Joseph L. (2006).
Pittsburgh and the Appalachians: Cultural and Natural Resources in a Postindustrial Age
. University of Pittsburgh Press.
Peel, M. C.; Finlayson, B. L. & McMahon, T. A. (2007).
"Updated world map of the Köppen-Geiger climate classification"
Hydrol. Earth Syst. Sci
2007HESS...11.1633P
10.5194/hess-11-1633-2007
Roberts, Michael (July 31, 2013).
"Photos: Ten most chill major cities in the summertime – and where Denver places"
Roehr, Daniel; Fassman-Beck, Elizabeth (March 5, 2015).
Living Roofs in Integrated Urban Water Systems
"2023 USDA Plant Hardiness Zone Map"
planthardiness.ars.usda.gov
"WMO Climate Normals for PITTSBURGH/GR PITTSBURGH INTL,PA 1961–1990"
. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
"NowData – NOAA Online Weather Data"
. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
"Pittsburgh Precipitation Records"
"Pittsburgh Historical Snowfall Totals 1883 to Current"
. NWS Pittsburgh, PA
"Cloudiness – Mean Number of Days"
National Climatic Data Center
. August 20, 2008. Archived from
on February 23, 2003
"Station: Pittsburgh INTL AP, PA"
U.S. Climate Normals 2020: U.S. Monthly Climate Normals (1991–2020)
. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
"Average Percent Sunshine through 2009"
National Climatic Data Center
"Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA - Monthly weather forecast and Climate data"
. Weather Atlas
US EPA, OAR (September 23, 2016).
"Air Data - Multiyear Tile Plot"
United States Environmental Protection Agency
"EPA: Air Quality Trends By City 2000-2022"
Frazier, Reid (November 11, 2020).
"Study: Pittsburgh kids near polluting sites have higher asthma rates"
StateImpact Pennsylvania
"For Low-Income Pittsburgh, Clean Air Remains an Elusive Goal"
Seltenrich, Nate (February 18, 2013).
"Tree on the Corner May Be Worth More Than Your House"
Lancianese, Adelina (March 28, 2018).
"New Report Finds Industrial Pollution Flowing Illegally into PA Rivers"
"Understanding Sewer Collection System"
3 Rivers Wet Weather
Smeltz, Adam (January 22, 2017).
"Peduto forges ahead to restructure PWSA leadership"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"About the Wet Weather Issue"
3riverswetweather.org
from the original on February 2, 2019
"Raw sewage flows into Pittsburgh's rivers. Is there an environmentally friendly fix that won't break the bank?"
. December 6, 2017
Krauss, M. J. (January 30, 2018).
"ALCOSAN More Than Doubling Wastewater Treatment Plant To Diminish Sewage Overflows"
. Archived from
on September 26, 2018
Hopey, Don (June 7, 2017).
"EPA, Alcosan near agreement on sewage-control plan"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"Clean Water Plan: Plan Documents"
Lindstrom, Natasha (January 18, 2018).
"Gov. Wolf to sign bill placing Pittsburgh's water system under PUC oversight"
Smeltz, Adam (February 3, 2017).
"City to turn to advisory panel to study water, sewer issues"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Morrison, Oliver (October 18, 2021).
"The untold story of Pittsburgh's water crisis and a future of $300 water bills"
Morrison, Oliver (October 19, 2021).
"The main cause of Pittsburgh's lead crisis wasn't corporate management"
"Pittsburgh's Drinking Water Was Clean Until This Company Came Along"
Glenza, Jessica (July 25, 2017).
"Pittsburgh officials may have 'deflected' attention from lead-contaminated water"
"PWSA Continues to Provide Protection for Those with Lead Service Lines"
. January 24, 2023
Marusic, Kristina.
"Lead detected in 80% of Allegheny County, Pa., water systems: Report - EHN"
Center, Thomas Merton (February 9, 2017).
"The Racist, Classist Origins of Pittsburgh's Water Crisis"
"Census of Population and Housing"
"U.S. Census Bureau QuickFacts: Pittsburgh city, Pennsylvania"
. April 1, 2020.
"Pittsburgh (city), Pennsylvania"
State & County QuickFacts
. U.S. Census Bureau. Archived from
"Pennsylvania – Race and Hispanic Origin for Selected Cities and Other Places: Earliest Census to 1990"
. U.S. Census Bureau. Archived from
on August 12, 2012
"1980 census of population. Characteristics of the population. General Social and Economic Characteristic"
"Pennsylvania: 1990, Part 1"
"P004: Hispanic or Latino, and Not Hispanic or Latino by Race – 2000: DEC Summary File 1 – Pittsburgh city, Pennsylvania"
United States Census Bureau
"P2: Hispanic or Latino, and Not Hispanic or Latino by Race – 2010: DEC Redistricting Data (PL 94-171) – Pittsburgh city, Pennsylvania"
United States Census Bureau
"P2: Hispanic or Latino, and Not Hispanic or Latino by Race – 2020: DEC Redistricting Data (PL 94-171) – Pittsburgh city, Pennsylvania"
United States Census Bureau
. www.niaf.org. March 29, 2009. Archived from the original on January 7, 2010
Wolowyna, Oleh (January 9, 2000).
"Demographic, social, cultural characteristics of persons of Ukrainian ancestry in Chicago"
The Ukrainian Weekly
No. 2, Vol. LXVIII
. Archived from
on September 6, 2008
(based on 1990 US Census)
LeMay, Michael C. (December 10, 2012).
Transforming America: Perspectives on U.S. Immigration [3 volumes]: Perspectives on U.S. Immigration
"Pittsburgh, PA, Metropolitan Statistical Area"
Metro-Area Membership Report
. The Association of Religion Data Archives. Archived from
on April 12, 2018
"Geography Profile: Pittsburg city, PA"
data.census.gov
"Pittsburgh-Area's Wealthiest Towns: Sewickley Makes the List"
Sewickley, PA Patch
. January 23, 2013
"The Demographic Statistical Atlas of the United States - Statistical Atlas"
statisticalatlas.com
"The Demographic Statistical Atlas of the United States - Statistical Atlas"
statisticalatlas.com
"New Americans in Pittsburgh"
American Immigration Council
. Pittsburgh. September 2023. p. 2
Klein, Emily (December 27, 2017).
"The Hill District, a community holding on through displacement and development"
Gillette, Howard (2022).
The Paradox of Urban Revitalization: Progress and Poverty in America's Postindustrial Era
. University of Pennsylvania Press. pp.
"East Liberty will lose more affordable housing, but seller aims to fight long-term displacement"
. April 5, 2022
Davis, Jeremiah (January 8, 2018).
"What's left when the gentrifiers come marching in"
"Religious Landscape Study"
Pew Research Center
. November 3, 2020.
"The 2017 Greater Pittsburgh Jewish Community Study"
Brandeis University
. Archived from
on December 21, 2019
Melton, J. Gordon (October 15, 2023).
"Jehovah's Witness | History, Beliefs & Facts"
"Religious Landscape Study"
Pew Research Center
's Religion & Public Life Project
About Our Region
Pittsburgh Technology Council
March 27, 2014, at the
Wayback Machine
Bobkoff, Dan (December 16, 2010).
"From Steel To Tech, Pittsburgh Transforms Itself"
Chetty, Raj; Hendren, Nathaniel; Kline, Patrick; Saez, Emmanuel (January 2014).
"Where Is The Land of Opportunity? The Geography of Intergenerational Mobility in the United States"
NBER Working Paper Series
. Working Paper Series (Working Paper 19843).
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper
from the original on February 2, 2014
Scully, M.S. (January 24, 2014).
"Pittsburgh #2: Top 10 cities to achieve the American Dream"
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
. Archived from
on January 27, 2014
"Bakery Square at Eastside, Pittsburgh :: Commercial, Residential Hotel Development"
. Walnut Capital and RCG Longview Fund
Moore, Andrew (December 8, 2010).
"It's a beautiful day in this neighborhood: growing in Pittsburgh"
The Official Google Blog
"Irish view Pittsburgh's comeback as their pot of gold"
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
. Archived from
on June 4, 2011
Foster, Lionel (February 21, 2013).
"What Steel City can teach Charm City"
The Baltimore Sun
Miller, Harold D. (December 5, 2010).
"Pittsburgh's Future: Thank Seniors for Helping Us Get Through the Recession"
Pittsburgh's Future: Making Southwestern Pennsylvania One of the World's Greatest Regions
"Top Private Employers"
Pittsburgh Regional Alliance
. Archived from
on October 10, 2006
Hronec, Jordan (May 23, 2022).
"2022 Fortune 500: Pittsburgh rankings see new top performer"
Pittsburgh Business Times
"2022 Fortune 500: Pittsburgh rankings see new top performer"
Chatsko, Maxx. (February 6, 2013)
Will the Dreamliner Ground Pittsburgh's Economy? (AA, ATI, BA, PPG, RTI)
. Fool.com. Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
"Arts & Economic Prosperity III – Greater Pittsburgh Arts Council"
. Archived from
on September 24, 2015
Built Green, Working Green, Everyday
David L. Lawrence Convention Center
Pittsburgh Is “Emerald City” with Dozens of Energy-Efficient Buildings
Phil Cynar ImaginePittsburgh.com (October 20, 2012)
Growth with a Vision
(October 27, 2012)
Natural gas locked in the Marcellus Shale has companies rushing to cash in on possibilities
(December 6, 2009)
Pitt: Land leased for oil, gas up 322 percent
Associated Press
via Google News (August 16, 2010)
Chevron to Buy Atlas Energy for $4.3 Billion
The New York Times
(November 9, 2010)
CONSOL Energy to Acquire Dominion's Appalachian E&P Business for $3.475 Billion In Cash
PR Newswire (March 15, 2011)
You saw it here first: Pittsburgh's Nickelodeon introduced the moving picture theater to the masses in 1905
Timothy McNulty
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
(June 19, 2005)
Pittsburgh reinvents itself as the new Hollywood
(August 7, 2012)
31st Street Studios in the Strip District wants to be L.A. East
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
(March 4, 2012)
Is Pittsburgh the New Hollywood?
(February 29, 2012)
4-star film studio coming to Strip District
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
(February 28, 2012)
How Pittsburgh landed 'The Dark Knight Rises'
Entertainment Weekly
(December 7, 2012)
Operated by Gateway Entertainment Studios L.P.
, Marisa Murphy, 31st Street Studios
Lights, cameras ... : Action at a new studio keeps Pittsburgh on film
(March 4, 2012)
Pa. film studio to feature 'Avatar' technology
(February 28, 2012)
Pittsburgh filmography
Internet Movie Database|IMDb
Pittsburgh Film Office
Is Pittsburgh The New Hollywood?
, Melissa Rayworth
Pittsburgh Magazine
(January, 2011)
Riely, Kaitlynn.
"Invention convention INPEX gathers in Pittsburgh"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"Pittsburgh: The Home of Zombies"
. Visit Pittsburgh. October 6, 2022
"Pittsburgh Zombies"
. Positively Pittsburgh. February 11, 2015
'Furries' leave visible prints Downtown and in Pittsburgh's coffers – Pittsburgh Post-Gazette"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"The Wax Works: Mary Lou Williams Pens Song About Pittsburgh"
The Pittsburgh Courier
. October 22, 1966. p. 13. Retrieved March 8, 2024.
"Mary Lou Williams and Group – Pittsburgh: Tracklist; Credits"
Wiz Khalifa "Black & Yellow" Hits Number One
. Rap Radar (February 10, 2011). Retrieved on January 14, 2012.
. Archived from
on August 6, 2020
"Here's An Infographic of the Most Metal Cities in America"
. June 16, 2016
Locklin, Kristy (July 9, 2019).
"Black Forge Coffee House opening McKees Rocks location next week"
Matos, Michaelangelo (July 11, 2011).
"How The Internet Transformed The American Rave Scene"
Kelly, Justin (2018).
"Hot Mass: Rebuilding Pittsburgh's Dance Music Culture"
Attack Magazine
Pro, Johnna A. (September 26, 2000).
"Police out to crash drug-laced 'rave' parties"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Archived from
Barnes, Tom (January 9, 2001).
"S. Siders raving over rink's late parties: Sleep-starved residents giving Ricciardi an earful"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Archived from
Silver, Jonathan D.; Barnes, Tom (January 3, 2001).
"Word of rave performance resulted in added police"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Archived from
Carter, Kelly (October 3, 2000).
"Nonprogressive portrayals - Letters to the editor"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Archived from
"How America's Standout Party Hot Mass Is Changing Pittsburgh"
. Electronic Beats. February 3, 2016
Stolman, Elissa (April 16, 2014).
"The Secret Techno Sex Parties of Pittsburgh"
Kim, Michelle (October 14, 2020).
"How Yaeji Found Her Voice"
Posner, Nina (October 1, 2020).
"Yaeji: All Together Now"
"At Hellbender's pressing plant in Lawrenceville, 'vinyl makes an album real'
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"August Wilson House"
augustwilsonhouse.org
"Rachel Louise Carson"
Pennsylvania Center for the Book
. Fall 2003. Archived from
on June 11, 2010
"August Wilson | Biography, Plays, Movies, Ma Rainey, & Facts"
Sherman, Jerome L. (December 16, 2006).
"Presidential biographer gets presidential medal"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Hayes, John (October 11, 1998).
"The write stuff"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Archived from
on January 18, 2022
"Welcome to Chiller Theater Memories!"
. Chillertheatermemories.com
"SAVINI.COM: The Official Tom Savini Home page"
"PARSEC: Pittsburgh's Premiere Science Fiction Organization"
. Parsec-sff.org. November 5, 2006. Archived from
on May 12, 2008
"Revenant: The Premiere Zombie Magazine – Features"
Revenantmagazine.com
. Archived from
on May 12, 2008
"Write or Die: A Science Fiction & Fantasy Writing Group"
Word.pghfree.net
. January 1, 2010
"Pittsburgh South Writes Homepage"
. Interzone.com. Archived from
on October 25, 2007
"Pittsburgh Worldwrights"
. Cs.cmu.edu. May 27, 2005. Archived from
on April 20, 1999
Rodger Turner, Webmaster.
"The SF Site: A Conversation With Mary Soon Lee"
. Sfsite.com. Archived from
on July 8, 2002
The Oxford Encyclopedia of Food and Drink in America
(2nd ed.). Oxford University Press. 2012.
Phillips, Jenn; Oberlin, Loriann Hoff; Pattak, Evan M.; Margittai, Michele (May 2008).
Insiders' Guide to Pittsburgh
(4th ed.). Globe Pequot Press. p. 4.
"Here's how Pittsburgh has earned the title of 2019 Food City of the Year"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
CBS Pittsburgh (March 31, 2023).
"Picklesburgh voted America's best specialty food festival"
pittsburghspeech.pitt.edu
Sultan, Tim (March 17, 2006).
"It's Not the Sights, It's the Sounds"
The New York Times
from the original on January 9, 2007
Pittsburgh Speech and Society
Visit Pittsburgh,
, Pittsburgh, PA, 2015 version. Accessed November 16, 2015.
Puko, Tim (May 17, 2010).
"Huge flood-control cost, planning mess put Southwestern Pennsylvania in bind – Pittsburgh Tribune-Review"
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
. Archived from
on May 20, 2010
Stephenson, Philip A. (September 15, 2005).
"Damage repaired, trauma remains after 2004 floods"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Anderson, R.M.; Beer, K.M.; Buckwalter, T.F.; Clark, M.E.; McAuley, S.D.; Sams, J.I. III; Williams, D.R. (2000).
"Water Quality in the Allegheny and Monongahela River Basins Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York, and Maryland, 1996–98"
U.S. Geological Survey Circular
. Circular (1202): 2.
2000usgs.rept....2A
10.3133/cir1202
Barcousky, Len (March 17, 2011).
"The historic St. Patrick's Day Flood of 1936: two eyewitness accounts"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"Why Pittsburgh's teams wear black and gold"
Wilson, Aaron (November 21, 2012).
"Ray Rice said he wasn't being disrespectful to Steelers' Terrible Towel, apologizes"
The Baltimore Sun
"TRAIL INFO - About the Trail"
. GREAT ALLEGHENY PASSAGE
"Best Pittsburgh Mountain Biking Spots"
. August 20, 2016
"Hartwood Acres"
. Trail Pittsburgh
(August 14, 2006).
"Baseball Plog"
Beaver County Times
. Archived from
on November 12, 2007
"1997 Pennant Races"
. Archived from
on February 11, 2015
"Pittsburgh Steelers Owner: Art Rooney net worth, political donations - Sports Illustrated"
. July 17, 2018
"ESPN ranks Steelers fans No. 1"
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
. August 30, 2008. Archived from
on October 8, 2008
Starrett, Agnes Lynch (1937).
Through one hundred and fifty years: the University of Pittsburgh
. University of Pittsburgh Press. p. 198.
"Pitt Panthers College Football History, Stats, Records"
College Football at Sports-Reference.com
Rossi, Rob (August 20, 2010).
"Pittsburgh Power unveiled as arena football expansion team"
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
. Archived from
on August 23, 2010
"Mellon Arena roof may open for final show"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Grant, Tim (November 30, 2015).
"Pittsburgh loves ice skating, but how many rinks might prove too many?"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"Association Rankings - MYHockey"
myhockeyrankings.com
"NCAA Division I Mens Basketball - NCAA Division I Champions"
Rauzulu's Street
"Pioneer Soccer teams have new home field at Highmark Stadium"
Point Park University
"Foxburg Country Club, the oldest course in continuous use in the United States - WPGA"
Dulac, Gerry (June 5, 2009).
"U.S. Open to return to Oakmont in 2016"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Shedloski, Dave.
"What He Means To Me"
Madden, Mark (February 27, 2021).
"Mark Madden's Hot Take: Stars like 'Jumping Johnny' DeFazio made 'Studio Wrestling' must-see TV"
Madden, Mark (July 12, 1990). "Studio wrestling: Pittsburgh area wrestlers recall TV show's glory days".
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Republican Party of Pennsylvania
"Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania – Transatlantic Cities Network"
. The German Marshall Fund of the United States. Archived from
on June 19, 2010
Schocker, Laura (December 18, 2013).
"What Pittsburgh Can Teach The Rest of the Country About Living Well"
The Huffington Post
"Caution Against Ranking"
"A Word About UCR Data"
. Archived from
on September 23, 2010
"Pittsburgh homicides hit lowest in 20 years"
Pittsburgh Tribune Live
. January 2020.
Byrdsong, T. Rashad; et al. (2015).
"A Ground-Up Model for Gun Violence Reduction: A Community-Based Public Health Approach"
Journal of Evidence-Informed Social Work
10.1080/15433714.2014.997090
Benzing, Jeffrey (January 16, 2016).
"Pittsburgh's repeating tragedy of unsolved black homicides"
Koscinski, Kiley (April 27, 2023).
"Pittsburgh City Council preliminarily approves funding to support new police contract"
Felton, Julia (December 13, 2023).
"Pittsburgh to use money from anti-violence trust fund on parks, recreation"
"Police Scorecard: Pittsburgh, PA"
Police Scorecard: Pittsburgh, PA
"National Universities: Top Schools"
U.S. News & World Report
Hart, Peter (August 30, 2007).
"University Times"
. Archived from
on January 11, 2009
Leiter, Brian (November 10, 2006).
"Welcome to the 2006–2008 Philosophical Gourmet Report"
Gill, Cindy (Fall 2007).
"The Company We Keep"
. University of Pittsburgh. Archived from
on January 14, 2008
Hart, Peter (April 5, 2007).
"U.S. News ranks Pitt grad schools"
University Times
. Archived from
on January 11, 2009
"Chatham University prepares for its first coed undergraduate class"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"Pittsburgh Public Schools to pay new teachers more, scrap performance-based pay | TribLIVE.com"
archive.triblive.com
"Nation's Largest Libraries"
. Archived from
on May 29, 2007
Widdersheim, Michael M.
Circulation of Power: The Development of Public Library Infrastructure in Greater Pittsburgh, 1924-2016.
Berlin: De Gruyter Saur, 2023.
"JURIST | School of Law | University of Pittsburgh"
www.law.pitt.edu
. Archived from
on March 6, 2010
Nielsen Reports 1.1% increase in U.S. Television Households for the 2006–2007 Season
January 20, 2017, at the
Wayback Machine
Nielsen Media Research
August 23, 2006. Retrieved on January 26, 2008.
Hoover, Bob; Kalson, Sally; Vancher, Barbara (March 28, 2004).
"WQED at 50: Born in television's Golden Age, Pittsburgh's public broadcasting station pioneered educational programming"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"KDKA, First Commercial Radio Station"
. Archived from
on February 11, 2015
McNulty, Timothy (March 2, 2008).
"Film workers here straining to keep up with four movies"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Purvey, Lee (September 1, 2013).
"A look at movie locations around Pittsburgh"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Eberson, Sharon (January 5, 2017).
'Fences' film shoot generated $9.4 million for Pittsburgh businesses, hires"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. PG Publishing Co., Inc
Phox, Jason (October 21, 2022).
"It's scary how much George Romero still influences Pittsburgh's film industry"
Machosky, Michael (December 26, 2020).
"The 16 best movies ever made in Pittsburgh"
"MPAA Unveils Latest State-By-State Figures on Economic Impact of Film and Television Industry"
"Pittsburgh Film Office – The Pittsburgh Film Office is a non-profit economic development agency promoting southwestern Pennsylvania to the film industry"
"Film Pittsburgh"
filmpittsburgh.org
"Casting Notices"
. Pittsburgh Film Office.
filmpittsburgh.org
"Film Festivals in Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh Annual Events"
Visit Pittsburgh
"Film Schools in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania | K12 Academics"
www.k12academics.com
. February 6, 2014.
"Film & Media Studies"
. University of Pittsburgh
"3 Rivers Studios"
3riversstudios.com
"Pittsburgh | Cinelease Studios"
cineleasestudios.com
"Video Production Services Pittsburgh | Post Script Productions"
Post Script Productions LLC
"Deeplocal – Creative Technology & Experience Design"
"Video Production Pittsburgh | The Videohouse | TV Crews"
thevideohouse.com
Machosky, Michael (July 25, 2022).
"Hollywood of Appalachia? Carrie Furnace gets $7.6 million for movie studio"
Beaver, William (1987).
"Duquesne Light and Shippingport: Nuclear Power Is Born in Western Pennsylvania"
The Western Pennsylvania Historical Magazine
"Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority – Home"
. Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority. Archived from
on May 16, 2010
"PUC – Natural Gas Suppliers List"
Society, Ingram Historical (August 1, 2007).
"UPMC Hospitals"
. Archived from
on February 23, 2012
"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette – Google News Archive Search"
"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette – News Links"
Post-gazette.com
"The Pittsburgh Press – Google News Archive Search"
Altman, Lawrence K. (December 15, 1995).
"Man Gets Baboon Marrow in Risky AIDS Treatment"
The New York Times
. Archived from
on July 22, 2012
"Superhero Window Washers Video"
"Home – Pittsburgh Post-Gazette"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Archived from
on July 5, 2012.
"Pitt's medical school to help Nazarbayev University in Kazakhstan develop its own"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette"
"Observer-Reporter – Google News Archive Search"
"Pittsburgh Firsts: By Event, Pennsylvania Department, Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh"
. Archived from
on January 12, 2016
"Pitt team inserts computer chip in brain so a person's thoughts can instigate motion"
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
. Archived from
on February 7, 2013
"Pittsburgh has Plenty of Bridges"
. June 16, 2006. Archived from
on November 21, 2009
"Bridges of Venice"
. Archived from the original on July 7, 2011
. abridgetovenezia.com
Gray, Richard; Greene, Brian; Fandray, Ryan; Turka, Robert (2015).
Geology of Pittsburgh
. Association of Environmental & Engineering Geologists. p. 44
"Pittsburgh, PA Public Transportation Statistics"
. Global Public Transit Index by Moovit
Material was copied from this source, which is available under a
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License
"Discover Pittsburgh's Neighborhoods"
"Pittsburgh ranked eighth among large cities for commuting without cars"
"Largest Transit Agencies"
American Public Transportation Association
. Archived from
on September 27, 2007
"Duquesne Incline, historic cable car railway serving commuters and tourists since 1877, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania"
. Incline.pghfree.net. October 14, 2008
"U.S. PORT RANKING BY CARGO VOLUME 2011 : Short Tons : Foreign Trade"
Aapa.files.cms-plus.com\access-date=2016-05-24
"Our Sister Cities"
sistercitiespgh.org
. Sister Cities Association of Pittsburgh. Archived from
on May 19, 2021
Further reading
Allen Dieterich-Ward,
Beyond Rust: Metropolitan Pittsburgh and the Fate of Industrial America
(U of Pennsylvania Press, 2016). viii, 347 pp.
Kenneth J. Kobus,
City of Steel: How Pittsburgh Became the World's Steelmaking Capital During the Carnegie Era.
Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield, 2015.
Charles McCollester,
The Point of Pittsburgh
: Production and Struggle at the Forks of the Ohio.
Pittsburgh, PA: Battle of Homestead Foundation, 2008.
Official website
Pittsburgh Convention and Visitors Bureau – Tourism
Historic Pittsburgh Maps Collection
PittsburghTODAY Regional benchmarks and statistics
October 29, 2019, at the
Wayback Machine
Pittsburgh Daily Gazette
, Google Newspaper archive. PDFs of 5,794 issues, dating primarily 1834–1841 and 1850–1863.
U.S. Geological Survey Geographic Names Information System: City of Pittsburgh