Tue, Mar 10 - Sun, Mar 15
Time left to complete order
2026-2027 Trust Season Announcement
Mon, Mar 23, 2026
Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Broadway & Musical Theater
Ondrej Psenicka in 52 Lovers
Thu, Feb  5 - Sun, Mar  1, 2026
Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Jason Isbell and the 400 Unit
Mon, Mar  2, 2026
Pittsburgh Cultural Trust and Outback Presents
Patti LuPone: Matters of the Heart
Tue, Mar  3, 2026
Dentons Cohen & Grigsby TRUST PRESENTS
Broadway & Musical Theater
International Guitar Night
Sat, Mar  7, 2026
O'Reilly Theater
Dentons Cohen & Grigsby TRUST PRESENTS
An Evening with Joe Bonamassa
Sat, Mar  7, 2026
We're always bringing more to our audience.
It's time to take your seats for an entire season of outstanding arts and entertainment. The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust offers season tickets and packages so that you can enjoy a host of great benefits including priority seating, ticket exchanges, and special offers.
Browse Our Series
Memorable performances for every age
Pittsburgh Dance Council
Get tickets today
Giving brings art to life.
Downtown Art Galleries
Free and open to the public
Year-round art films
Ranked #1 thing to do in Pittsburgh
Go backstage in the Cultural District
“The Cherry on Top”: Clairton Elementary Students Return to the Benedum for Wicked
The Benedum Center, with its soaring ceilings and ornate fixtures, has long been a source of inspiration for visitors and artists alike. Over the past several months, Clairton Elementary students have discovered that magic for themselves—not just as students, but as young performing artists and audience members...
Scene Change: Benedum Elevator, Byham Exit Signs, O'Reilly Façade Repair
From applying intricate plaster moldings and printing historic signage to repairing an iconic blue facade, we take our historical roots seriously at Cultural Trust venues...
See the Updates
Love the Arts this Valentine’s Season
Whether you’re planning a classic date night, a night out with friends, or a solo evening, these extraordinary performances will have you falling in love with the arts all over again....
Plan Your Valentine's Day
Looking for more?
Join our email list and get priority access to tickets, news, and events!