Pittsburgh Will Surprise You
Keep warm with seasonal favorites in our city of multitudes
Ready or not, winter is upon us, but just because it's cold outside doesn't mean Pittsburgh isn't heating up with fun! Enjoy our plethora of
winter outdoor activities
treat yourself to a relaxing weekend
, and warm up at
cozy coffee shops
sure to make you melt.
Experience an unforgettable February in the city!
Love is in the air this February, and Pittsburgh has everything you need to celebrate Valentine's Day.
If you haven't booked your dinner reservations, we have a
complete list of romantic dinners
to treat your sweetheart to. Spoiler alert: none of the options are bad options. We have everything from a fancy dinner overlooking the Golden Triangle to takeout tacos perfect for homebodies. Of course, Valentine's Day isn't just about romantic love. Celebrate your favorite friends for
Galentine's Day
with brunch, mimosas, candle making, and more. And for those still looking for that special someone, Pittsburgh is the perfect place to live out your romantic comedy dreams.
Here's our feel-good guide
you can use to turn your life into a Hallmark Channel movie
Benedum Center in Pittsburgh's Cultural District
For those looking to
adventure outdoors this winter
, Pittsburgh is packed with more activities than you might realize. Head to
for skiing, snowboarding, tubing and more. In addition to the ice rink at PPG Plaza, there are
outside of the Downtown scope, including in Oakland, the North and South Hills, and more. There are also several parks around the area, like
, that make for great sledding locations.
So, whether you’re a local or just visiting, February is packed with exciting events and things to do for the whole family in Pittsburgh. Don’t miss out on winter in the city!
Get Ready for NFL Draft 2026!
Here in Pittsburgh the journey to legend begins – April 23-25, 2026.
The Football Town
Highlighting Pittsburgh's unique place in the history of football, narrated by Pittsburgh native Pat McAfee.
Celebrate America’s 250th
America's 250th marks the 250th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence on…
The Hype is Real: The Pittsburgh Scoop is Here!
Pittsburgh is a city of eclectic cultures, communities and neighborhoods that help create the vibrant arts…
Restaurants & Culinary
Global cuisine spanning 90 unique neighborhoods
The signature events that make Pittsburgh a destination every year
Pittsburgh Sports
In Pittsburgh, we bleed black and gold.